
PREFACE.
ALTHOUGH much has been written upon the poetical and romantic ideas contained in Beethoven's
Pianoforte Sonatas, I am not aware that a complete analysis of each Sonata has ever been
published. I hope, therefore, that this little work will prove useful to, and supply a want felt by, musical
Students, to whom a thorough knowledge of the way in which Beethoven has treated the orthodox
rules of form in these compositions, cannot but be of the greatest benefit.
I wish to express my indebtedness for the assistance which a reference to the following works
has afforded me during the composition of this Analysis:-" Musical Forms " (E. Pauer); " Composition "
(Sir John Stainer); Article on " Form," Dictionary of Music (Sir George Grove); " Musical Form
and General Composition" (Sir F. A. Gore Ouseley); and " Lectures on Musical Analysis" (H. C.
Banister).
H. A. HARDING.
Bedford, 1889.
A MODERN SONATA CONSISTS OF 2, 3, OR 4 MOVEMENTS, GENERALLY WRITTEN IN " SONATA" (a),
"ARIA " (b), "RONDO," " AIR WITH VARIATIONS," OR "FUGUE " FORM, a short description of which is
here given:"SONATA FORM" is divided into three parts.  The ist part (which may be conveniently called the
" Enunciation ") commences with the principal, or Ist subject, in tonic key; followed by episodal
passages (called the " Connecting Episode " in this work), leading to the 2nd subject in the
dominant key (c) (should the tonic key be minor, the 2nd subject will generally be in the relative
major key). A Coda is then added (frequently founded upon previous material), and the Ist part
ends with double bar and repeat in the key of the 2nd subject.  The 2nd part consists of a
Development of the two previous subjects-it should not commence in tonic key. The 3rd part
contains a Recapitulation of the Ist subject in original key, succeeded by the connecting Episode
altered so as to lead to the tonic key, in which the and subject re-appears. A Coda brings the
movement to a close.
" MODIFIED SONATA FORM."-The Sonata form is said to be modified, when some important part is
only faintly shadowed forth, as in the case where a few accessory bars take the place of the 2nd
subject, or where there is little or no development in the 2nd part.
"ARIA FORM " is also divided into three parts. The characteristic of this form is, that the 3rd part
is a repetition of the Ist part, though the repetition is sometimes a free one.  The Ist part
contains the principal subject or subjects, it begins and ends in the same key. The 2nd part
is formed on the same plan, but it begins and ends in a different key to the Ist part. The 3rd
part is either a free, or an exact, repetition of the Ist part. The latter (which is indicated by
" D. C.") is the older form. Sometimes each part may be a miniature example of Sonata, or Aria
form, in itself, as in the case of a Minuet and Trio.
" RONDO FORM " resembles Sonata form, excepting that the Ist subject recurs at the end of the
Ist part in the original key, and generally, also, at the end of the last part; and that instead of
the Development (2nd part) a 3rd subject is sometimes introduced. Occasionally there is no
definite 2nd subject, but Episodes in various keys alternate with the principal subject.
' AIR WITH VARIATIONS FORM " consists of a well-defined melody of definite length, followed by a
series of " variations " upon it. The air appearing in "various kinds of figure and rhythm and
"in varied division and complication of parts-changes of harmony, with contrapuntal and
"even fugal treatment, provided the melodious order and phrasing is preserved throughout " (d).
" FUGUE FORM."-For a full description of this Form, see " Primer on Fugue " (Higgs).
(a). Sometimes called " Modern Binary," " Movement of Continuity," or " ist Movement Form."
(b). Also called " Song form."
(c). The rule (as regards the key of the 2nd subject) is often disregarded.
(d). " Musical Forms " (Pauer).


