
D. This episode, although it resembles that at letter B, inasmuch as it is formed upon the same figure,
is considerably varied both harmonically and melodically.
E. The Ist subject re-appears in the tonic key, varied. At bars 81"'-84 the melody, which appeared at
bar 23~', is referred to.
F. The Coda is constructed upon tonic pedal point and is suggestive of the Ist subject.
SECOND MOVEMENT.
A. The Ist subject may be divided into two parts, both beginning and ending in tonic key. First part,
bars 1-8; second part, bars 9-16. The second part, which is constructed upon a dominant pedal point, is
repeated with slight additions, bars 17-24.
B. The connecting episode leads off with a 4-bar phrase (in octaves) in tonic key, bars 25-28, imitated and
harmonised, bars 29-32, leading to pedal point on dominant of B minor, which is suggestive of the second
part of the Ist subject, preparatory to the entry of the 2nd subject, bar 42(".
C. The 2nd subject for 6 bars is sequential in character, bars 42(6'-48. At bar 49 it modulates to
C major, and continues in that key until bar 55, where by means of the chord of the diminished 7th on E#
(Ft) it proceeds back to B minor, which key is well established by the 4 bars which follow, 57-60, treated
in double counterpoint, 61-64. The 2nd subject ends in B minor, bar 66.
D. The development commences with a reference to the Ist subject, the bass of the first 4 bars being
adapted from  that at bars 59-60 forming a subject which is repeated at various intervals upon
pedal point, bars 70-78, resolving itself at bar 79 into C major, in which key, at bar 83, an episode
is introduced, which modulates to E minor. The development ends with the dominant chord of B minor.
E. The first part of the Ist subject re-appears in double counterpoint, bars 112-118, the former bass,
slightly altered, appearing in the treble. The second part of the Ist subject is omitted.
F. The connecting episode is constructed of the same material as before, the beginning being transposed
into C major (preceded by a modulation into that key, bars II9)-I120o). It ends in tonic key.
G. The 2nd subject re-appears with the necessary transpositions, so as to end in the tonic key, instead
of in the dominant minor, otherwise it is only slightly altered.
H. The Coda mainly consists of a perfect cadence followed by a passage in contrary motion, the bass
of which, beginning at bar 170, is taken from that at bars 158-161.
THIRD MOVEMENT.
A. The "Air" is divided into 2 parts, both repeated. The first part ending on dominant, bar 8, the
second part with full close on tonic, bar 16.
B. The interest of the first variation is principally confined to the melody.
C. The second variation is constructed upon a fanciful figure. At bars 9-12 an episode is introduced
which appears again at bars 25-28.
D. The time is changed in the third variation from i to 2. This variation contains a great deal of
double counterpoint. Bars 1-4 are inverted with slight alterations at bars 5-8, and in the same way bars
9-12 at 13-16, and bars 17-24 at bars 25-32.
E. The fourth variation (the time of which changes to 9) is in striking contrast to the preceding
variation. It is constructed upon the figure in bar i, excepting at bars 12-14, which are of a
different character.
F. The fifth variation (in common time) is in the fugal style. A subject based upon the original air is
answered at the second above for 2 bars in canon with an independent bass. This subject is treated in
various ways, the fugal character being maintained throughout.
G. The sixth variation beginning in the original | time is a most elaborate one. The beginning of it
is like a series of variations upon the first two bars of the air, which are given in almost their former
simplicity, bars 1-2. At bars 2-3 the variation is just manifest; two parts in crotchets being changed to
quavers. At bar 5 the time is changed to | and the accompaniment to triplets in quavers, which alter to
semiquavers, bar 6, and to demisemiquavers in | time, bar 8'8m. At bar 12" quite a new form of variation
is introduced, which continues for 4 bars, followed by a brilliant episode formed upon dominant pedal point,
which is inverted at bar 25, where the second part of the air appears (varied) in the treble.
H. At bar 36 the "Air" is given in its original form, without repeats.

8127.( 63 )


