
FIRST MOVEMENT.

A. Rondo form is unusual for the Ist movement of q Sonata.
B. The ist subject contains a considerable amount of imitation. The sentence, bars 1-5", is repeated
at bars 5"-9~1", and bars 9(8"-17 at 17(8"-25(. It ends with full close in the tonic, bar 251".
C. This episode is canonical in character; the whole of it is based upon the new subject, which
commences in tonic key, bar 251", and is imitated in the treble, bar!z6"', at the 8th. It ends upon the
dominant, bar 63"'.
D. Bars 63-7I"' form a passage leading to and overlapping the 2nd entry of the ist subject.
E. The ist subject is varied on its re-appearance, bar 70.
F. This episode resembles that in the ist part, but it is considerably shortened.
G. The Ist subject is again varied and also extended, ending with a cadenza, bar 137.
H. The Coda refers to the Ist subject and is constructed on pedal point.
SECOND MOVEMENT.
A. This movement consists of a series of repetitions of the subject announced in the bass, bars 1-4,
and the sequence, bars 9-12, interspersed with short episodes.  It closely conforms to the Toccata form,*
inasmuch as one subject is repeated over and over again in contrapuntal style; but it is more correct to
look upon it as being in Sonata form, although only the barest outline is followed.
B. The ist subject commences with a passage of 4 bars in the bass, repeated in the treble 2 bars
behind. Bars 5-6 in the bass are repeated, bars 7-8, in the treble. A sequence follows, ending in C major.
C. The accessory bars take the place of the 2nd subject; they are founded upon bar i, beginning with
pedal point in the bass.
D. Bar 20 leads to the repetition of the enunciation, bar 21 to the development.
E. The development consists of nothing but repetitions of the ist subject in various keys, connected
by episodes formed (principally) upon the ist subject.
F. The ist subject is in the original key upon tonic pedal point; it is considerably altered and
extended.
G. The Coda simply refers to the 1st subject. Bars 165-173"') are repeated with 2 bars added,
173-1830).
* See " Musical Forms " (Pauer).D
(45)


