
FIRST MOVEMENT.
A. The Ist subject begins upon the 3rd inversion of the chord of the IIth. Bars 1-8, repeated in a
different register at bars 10-17. Bars 18-21 are also repeated (varied), bars 22-25. The first subject ends
with a short passage of the nature of a Codetta, bars 25-29).
B. The connecting episode commences without any break, and flows right on from the Ist subject,
which subject is referred to, bar 33. The 3rd inversion of the chord of the IIth here having a minor 9th
instead of a major as before. The connecting episode ends upon F, the dominant of the 2nd subject key.
C. The 2nd subject consists of 8 bars, 45(8)-53, which, after a connecting passage of 4 bars are repeated
(varied), bars 57-64.
D. The Coda is constructed of new material, and begins and ends in dominant key; bars 72-76 are
simple arpeggios of the triad of B1, followed, bars 78-8I, by arpeggios of the dominant chord of Bf
accompanied by a shake upon the 5th of the chord. Bar 82 is evidently taken from bar 9, and bar 85 from
bar 7.
E. Bars 86-88 form a connecting passage formed from the last phrase of the Coda (bars 82-84.)
F. The development begins like the Ist subject upon which it is chiefly founded, it ends with the
harmony of F minor.
G. The Ist subject re-appears with the harmony of F minor in the first two bars, 137-138, instead of
the 3rd inversion of the Inth (root Bh), as before.
H. The connecting episode re-appears without the reference to the Ist subject, it ends, however, on the
dominant (Bb) instead of on F.
J. The connecting passage (bars 53-56) is varied and extended, 177-183.
K. The Coda, which begins like that in the enunciation, transposed into the tonic key, is extended, the
additional bars being founded upon the ist subject.
SECOND MOVEMENT.
A. The Scherzo, which Beethoven sometimes used instead of the Menuetto, does not here take
that position, as it is followed by a Menuetto and Trio. This is the only instance where Beethoven has used
2-4 time for Scherzo.
B. The Ist subject consists of a sentence of 8 bars ending with full close in the tonic, extended to 9
bars by the repetition of the final cadence.
C. The connecting episode simply consists of a passage modulating to F minor, upon the dominant of
which it ends, bar 15.
D. The entrance of the 2nd subject is delayed, there is a passage of 4 bars, I54'-I9, beginning in Dr and
proceeding down to Bh, Gý, and Eh, forming the chord of the dominant 7th, after which the Ist subject and
the connecting episode are repeated, bars 20-34.
E. The 2nd subject commences in F major, instead of in the key of the dominant Eb; it will be seen,
however, that it ends in that key, bar 50.
F. The Coda might at first sight be looked upon as the 2nd subject, considering that it begins and ends
in the key of the dominant, and that the second subject (see letter E) is of indefinite tonality. It is, however,
clearly a Coda formed of tonic and dominant harmony. It should be noted that Beethoven's Scherios are
often somewhat irregular as to form.
G. Bars 56-61 form a passage leading to the repetition of the enunciation, after which, with bars 64-65,
it leads to the development.
H. The development commences with a part of the Ist subject in the key of F major. After a reference
to 2nd subject a portion of the Ist subject appears in the key of C major, bar 85. A new figure is introduced,
bars 92-97. After some scale passages it ends upon tonic key, bar io8.
J. The Ist subject and connecting episode re-appear in the original keys.
K. The Ist subject and connecting episode are repeated as before (see letter D), excepting that the
Ist subject is varied.
L. The 2nd subject re-appears, beginning in the key of G0, which is very irregular, ending, however, in
the tonic key, bar 157.
M. The Coda is elongated.
THIRD MOVEMENT.
A. The Menuetto and Trio are in the same key, which is unusual. See also Allegretto and Trio,
Op. 27, No. 2.
B. The Ist subject ends on half-close upon the dominant.
C. The 2nd subject is developed from the Ist subject and is in the same key.
D. The Trio is in modified Sonata form.
E. In the Coda there is another instance (see letter F, Sonata No. 17, 2nd Movement) of the subdominant harmony playing an important part in the Coda, making a prolonged plagal cadence.

8127

( 37 )


