
FIRST MOVEMENT.
A. The Ist subject ends at bar 9 on half-close. It is written in 2-bar rhythm.
B. The connecting episode is principally based upon the 2nd and 3rd bars of the first subject.
C. The 2nd subject begins with the chord of the dominant minor 9th.
D. The Coda principally confirms the cadence in Ab major.
E. The development refers to both subjects.   The Ist subject, which was originally in 2-bar
rhythm, occurs here, bars 50-56, in 3-bar rhythm. A pedal point of some length, bars 83-96, leads to
the recapitulation.
F. The connecting episode is slightly altered, the beginning of it is transposed into the tonic key.
G. The Coda very much resembles that in the enunciation, transposed into the tonic key and slightly
elongated.
SECOND MOVEMENT.
A. The Ist subject ends with full close on the tonic. It is adapted from an early Pianoforte Quartet.*
B. The 2nd subject begins in the key of the relative minor, modulating to C major, bar 22, in which
key it ends. Bars 28-32 may be looked upon as constituting a subordinate theme; but it is clearly derived
from bars 23-28.
C. The Ist subject re-appears considerably varied, although the harmony remains almost unaltered.
D. The Coda is formed upon the last part of the 2nd subject with slight reminiscences of the first
subject.
THIRD MOVEMENT.
A. The ".Menuetto " is in modified Sonata form.
B. The Ist subject commences in F minor with a 4-bar phrase, which is repeated, bars 5"8-904, in the
relative major, it ends with another 4-bar phrase, bars 9"-1I3m. The right hand parts of bars 7y'-9(2
are inverted, bars 9q"-II).  Bars II(-1I3(1) are repeated, forming the accessory bars I3(')-15(), which
evidently take the place of the 2nd subject.
C. The development refers to the Ist subject.
D. The Ist subject re-appears, varied and shortened, and altered so as to end in tonic key.
E. The accessory bars are transposed to tonic key.
F. The Trio is in modified Sonata form.
G. The Trio contains many instances of inverting the parts. Compare bars 6-8 in the bass with 2-4
in the treble.
H. The Ist subject is referred to in the development, the parts are again inverted. Compare bars
17-19 with bars 13-15.
J. The Ist subject re-appears slightly shortened, and altered so as to end in the tonic key instead of
in dominant key as before.
FOURTH MOVEMENT.
A. The long episode in the " development " has caused this movement to be sometimes described as
being in Rondo form.
B. The first part of bar I is introductory. The rhythm  of the first subject commences upon
the 3rd beat of the bar. The Ist subject ends upon the dominant chord.
C. The connecting episode commences in tonic key with the 2nd part of the Ist subject, followed by
the Ist part of the same subject in the key of G (dominant of the 2nd subject), 5 bars on the dominant 7th
of the key of C minor lead into the 2nd subject.
D. The 2nd subject, instead of being in the relative major key, is in the dominant minor.
E. The Coda is based upon the first subject.
F. The development begins after 2 introductory bars, with an episode in Ah major, bars 62-112,
the real "working out " being between bars 112-141.
G. The Ist subject re-appears unaltered.
H. The connecting episode is for the most part exactly like that in the " enunciation, " transposed so
as to lead into the key of the tonic.
J. The 2nd subject re-appears slightly varied, and transposed to tonic key.
K. The Coda consists entirely of a varied repetition of the commencement of the Ist subject.
* Dictionary of Music (Grove).
8127                                          (3)


