
FIRST MOVEMENT.
A. The first subject, which is entirely in C minor, begins with two 4-bar phrases, which are condensed
to 2-bar phrases at bars 22-27.
B. The connecting episode (with one introductory bar on Eh) begins with a melodious phrase, which
occurs 3 times, in the keys of A' major, F minor, and DP major respectively.  After 4 bars of modulation
there is a pedal point in the bass upon Bb for 8 bars.
C. The znd subject is in 4-bar rhythm. After the chord of the 6, bar 86, there is a reminiscence of the
Ist subject. It ends with full close in Eb major.
D. The Coda is formed upon the closing part of the connecting episode.
E. The development commences with a part of the Ist subject in C major. At bar 118 the 2nd
subject is developed. Bars 136-167 form a passage taken from the connecting episode, leading to the
re-entry of the Ist subject.
F. The Ist subject re-appears shortened, bars 22-30 being omitted.
G. The Ist phrase of the original connecting episode is transposed from Ab major to GI major, its
first repetition from F minor to Gh major, and its 2nd repetition from Dt major to Eý minor; the concluding part (pedal point) being upon the note C instead of Bb.
H. The 2nd subject re-appears shortened, and transposed into F major instead of into the tonic key
C'minor. At bar'233, however, the whole subject recurs in the latter key.
J. The Coda is slightly altered and transposed into the tonic key.
SECOND MOVEMENT.
A. The 2nd movement is in modified Sonata form.
B. The Ist subject begins with two phrases of 2 bars each, followed by a phrase of 4 bars ending with
half-close on the dominant. These phrases are then repeated (varied), ending with full close in the tonic key.
C. The connecting episode commences with a 2-bar phrase in Bb minor, repeated in Ab major; an
imitation of it is used to modulate to Eb major.
D. The 2nd subject begins with a 4-bar phrase, 24-27, repeated varied, bars 28-31a. This is followed by
another phrase, bars 31-35, which is also repeated (varied), ending with full close in Eb major, bar 44.
E. There is no development in this movement, its place being taken by simply an arpeggio chord of
the dominant 7th, bar 45.
F. The connecting episode re-appears altered after the first 3 bars so as to end in tonic key instead
of in dominant. It is also elongated. Compare bars 65-70 with 20-23.
G. The Coda is formed upon the Ist subject; it contains syncopation in every bar but the last two.
THIRD MOVEMENT.
A. The whole of the Ist subject is founded upon the first 6 notes.
B. The connecting episode begins with reference to the Ist subject upon tonic pedal point for 4 bars.
After some florid passages it closes with dominant chord (G), which is an unusual one to precede the key
of E! major.
C. The 2nd subject ends at bar 25m, the following bars being a short development of it.
D. The Coda commences with a variation of the Ist subject in the key of the relative major (in the
bass, bars 29-30, then in the treble, bar 31). The following 3 bars (32-34) are immediately repeated, with
slight variation. Bars 38-40 are treated in the same way. The Coda closes on pedal point in Eý major.
E. The development is of slight dimensions and only refers to the Ist subject.
F. The connecting episode is slightly varied and is not transposed.
G. The 2nd subject re-appears in C major instead of C minor; it, however, ends in C minor.
H. The Coda is transposed into tonic key to bar 103, where there are added 5 bars in Dt major, ending
(on pause) on dominant 7th, followed by the first 5 bars of the 2nd subject, still in the same key (Db), and
again ending on dominant 7th.  After an enharmonic modulation (by chord of diminished 7th) to the key
of the tonic, it closes with a tonic pedal point, upon which are alternately the first 6 notes of the 2nd
subject and the first 6 notes of the Ist subject.
8127                                        ( II )


