
FIRST MOVEMENT.
A. This is the second Sonata of which the first movement is not in Sonata form, the first instance
under our notice being Op. 26.
B. The first subject consists of two complete sentences in Eý major of four bars each-both of which
are repeated.
C. This episode, like the first subject, begins and ends in the key of the tonic, it modulates, bars 15-16,
to F minor, bars 15-I8 are repeated (slightly varied), bars 19-22.
D. This episode commences with an 8-bar section, ending in the key of G major, bar 47 (double bar and
repeat from bar 39). Followed by another 8-bar section (founded upon the above), with a varied repetition
of the same, leading into the key of the tonic E'.
SECOND MOVEMENT.
A. This movement resembles a " Minuet and Trio," though it is not so designated.
B. This part (Menuetto) is in Aria form.
C. The episode is formed upon the ist subject.
D. The second part (Trio) is not in any prescribed form.
E. This episode is entirely formed upon the chord of the dominant 9th, the rhythm being the same
as;n the preceding part.
F. The movement ends with 5 bars of the tonic major chord.
THIRD MOVEMENT.
A. This movement may be considered an introduction to the 4th movement.
B. The first subject ends on half-close on the dominant.
C. This episode begins and ends in the key of the dominant. In the concluding bar (16) there is a
modulation back to the tonic key.
D. Bars 24-26 constitute a cadenza leading into the 4th movement.
FOURTH MOVEMENT.
A. The ist subject begins with a 4-bar section ending in dominant key, which is repeated (altered),
ending in tonic key, forming a complete sentence of 8 bars; bars 10-17 form another sentence of 8 bars;
bars 18-25 are a repetition of bars 10-17.
B. This episode is formed upon the beginning of the Ist subject.
C. The 2nd' subject is in two parts, both begin and end in the key of the dominant, bars 36(4--57W and
57-73 -
D. This episode is formed on dominant pedal point, modulating to tonic key.
E. Bars 99-107, constructed on the ist subject, begin in the key of tonic minor and end in G0  major;
they are preparatory to the second part (development), which begins in that key.
F. The 2nd part consists of a working out of the first subject (bars 107-140), followed (bars 140-167)
by a passage leading to the 3rd entry of %st subject.
G. The repetition of part of 1st subject already referred to (letter A) re-appears here inverted, bars 184-191.
H. This episode begins like the Ist (letter B), which it imitates exactly for 4 bars, after which it
modulates and ends on dominant, bar 204.
J. This episode resembles letter D. It begins in the key of Ai' major, and ends on dominant 7th, bar 256.
K. The Coda reverts to the 3rd movement transposed into El' major (Introduction to the 4th movement),
after a cadenza it closes "Presto," bar 267 to the end, formed upon the second and third notes of the Ist subject.


