
FIRST MOVEMENT.

A. This Sonata begins with a slow movement, the usual movement in quick time being omitted.
B. The form of this movement is irregular, but it contains the chief characteristics of Sonata form.
C. Bars 1-5 form an introduction to the ist subject.
D. Both subjects begin and end in different keys.
SE. Bars 9-15 form a passage which fulfils the duty of a connecting episode, although in some respects
it may be considered as a continuation of the Ist subject. It begins in E minor and ends in B minor.
F. The development is very short. It only contains one slight reference to the Ist subject, and 12 bars
upon a dominant pedal point closing in tonic key.
G. The connecting episode differs from that already referred to (letter E). It begins in E major and
ends in C# minor.
H. The 2nd subject re-appears considerably altered after the first 4 bars.
J. The Coda refers to the Ist subject in the part next the bass, bars 60-65.
SECOND     MOVEMENT.
A. The " Allegretto and Trio " constitute a " Menuetto and Trio."  It is unusual for both to be in the
same key.
B. The "Allegretto " (Menuetto) is in Aria form.
C. The Ist subject (Part I.) begins in the key of the dominant. See also " Scherzo," Op. 26.
S D. The repetition takes the place of the usual double bar and repeat.
E. The " Trio " is in Aria form.
F. There is no regular return to the Ist subject.
THIRD    MOVEMENT.
A. It is a curious fact that there is no modulation to the relative major key in this movement.
B. The Ist subject begins with arpeggio passages in 2-bar rhythm, bars 1-6 (condensed to I-bar
rhythm, bars 7-8), followed by a dominant pedal point, bars 9-14, upon which it ends.
C. The connecting episode is built upon the Ist subject. It begins in C# minor (tonic), and ends in
G# minor.
D. The 2nd subject (instead of being in the relative major) is in G$ minor, it is divided into two parts,
both beginning and ending in G# minor. First part, bars 21-43". Second part, bars 43-63('. The second
part may be again sub-divided into two portions-43-570~ and 57-630.
E. Bars 63-64 simply modulate into C# minor for the repeat, and into C# major for the development.
F. The development begins with a reference to the Ist subject. At bar 72 a portion of the 2nd subject
occurs in F# minor-the melody of which is transposed to the bass, bar 76. Bars 88-ioo are constructed
upon dominant pedal point.
G. The Ist subject re-appears unaltered.
H. The connecting episode (letter C) is omitted.
J. The 2nd subject is transposed into tonic key, one bar (39) being omitted. Compare bars 37-40
with bars 133-135.
K. The Coda begins with a reminiscence of the Ist subject, followed by a passage of diminished 7ths,
bars 164-167. At bars 168-177 there is a recurrence of part of the 2nd subject, and after some arpeggios
(note the chord of the Neapolitan 6th, bars 180-181) the movement ends with a reference to the end of the
2nd subject, upon tonic pedal point (bar 191).

( 29 )


