
FOURTH MOVEMENT.
A. This introduction is very fragmentary in character, and is not in any prescribed form. It is
divided into 4 parts, each forming a totally different subject; part I beginning in F major, " Largo,"
ending on chord of B major; part 2 ("un poco piu vivace"), beginning and ending in B major; part 3
("Allegro"), beginning and ending in G# minor; part 4 (bars 9 to bar 5 of the "Allegro Resoluto "),
beginning in A major and ending in Bb major, the tonic A being used for leading note to Bi. A
continuation of the introduction overlaps the entry of the Ist subject, bar 6. Between parts 2 and 3
(end of bar 2), also parts 3 and 4 (bar 8), there is a reference to part I.
B. This is the Ist movement (taking these Sonatas in the order in which they were published)
containing a combination of forms.
C. The Ist subject consists of a passage, bars 6-13a), treated fugally at considerable length. After a
short codetta it is answered tonally, bars 16-231), the last 2 notes being altered. A counter-subject appears
at bars 17-22. The subject enters again in tonic key in the bass (slightly shortened) at bar 25, and the
counter-subject at bar 26 in the treble. An episode, bars 32-55, formed upon the subject and countersubject and codetta leads to the entry of the subject in the treble in A' major, bar 55. Another episode,
formed upon the end of the subject and a part of the counter-subject (partly in double counterpoint), closes
in Gý major, bar 75), followed by a series of imitations beginning in Gý major and ending in Eb minor
(principally based upon the figure in bar 75), which lead to the re-entry of the Ist subject.
D. The Ist subject, instead of re-appearing in tonic key (which it usually does at the end of Part I. in a
Rondo), enters in Eh minor (augmented), answered (partially) at bar o10 in the treble, and at bar 102, by
inversion in the bass. The Ist part ends in Db major, bar Io62).
E. The development refers, from bar 1o6" to 142, principally, to previous material. At bar 143 a new
subject is introduced in B minor, followed by further development of fragments of the Ist subject.
F. The subject re-appears, bar 186 (slightly shortened), in D major in the bass, answered by inversion
in G major, bar 198, and slightly altered (also by inversion) at bar 206 in an inner part. An episode formed
mainly upon the subject, ending bar 239 on the chord of A major, is followed by a new episode in D majorit is imitatory in character.
G. The subject re-appears (shortened) in various parts, commencing bar 269 in tonic, the beginning
of the episode (bar 240) being combined with it. It is answered in the key of the dominant (inverted), bar 284(,
in the bass, and direct, bar 284(8), in the treble. The subject enters again, bar 290" (inverted), in the treble,
and at bar 290(8) direct in the bass. The rest of this section of the movement is occupied with references to
previous material, which is introduced in almost every conceivable form of imitation. It ends with full close
in tonic key, bar 356.
H. The chief feature of the Coda is the pedal point which commences, bar 359'2), on the subdominant
(Eh) proceeding to the dominant, bar 362~'~, upon which a tonic pedal point is added. This double pedal
point continues to bar 371. The whole of the Coda is founded upon the Ist subject and counter-subject.
It ends with full close in the tonic key.
8127                                         ( 6I )                                E


