
FIRST MOVEMENT.
A. The Ist subject consists of an 8-bar sentence in tonic key throughout, the first 4 bars being all in the
same rhythm.
B. The last 6 bars of the melodious connecting episode are constructed upon a pedal point on A,
reached by a gradually rising bass from G to the 9th above, the melody being also in sequence.
C. The 2nd subject in D major is composed of two sections of 4 bars each, the Ist ending on dominant
7th, the and on chord of D major overlapping a new phrase of one bar, which is repeated 3 times, the 3rd
repetition being altered to end in A major; the same phrase i c.:rs again leading to a modulation to G major,
followed by a passage leading back to D major.
D. The Coda is composed of new material of the nature of a supplementary subject.
E. The development, commencing in G minor, refers to both the Ist and and subjects. It ends on
dominant 7th after 14 bars on dominant pedal point.
F. The connecting episode re-appears altered so as to end on the dominant.
G. The Coda resembles that in the enunciation for several bars, after which a variation of the Ist
subject occurs on tonic pedal point.
SECOND MOVEMENT.
A. The " Air " is in 2-bar rhythm.
B. In the Ist variation there is syncopation in nearly every bar.
C. The 2nd variation contains several instances of pedal point.
D. The 3rd variation is characterised by a persistent semiquaver figure, the harmony being exactly the
same as in the enunciation of the air.
E. The Coda contains slight reminiscences of the original theme.
THIRD MOVEMENT.
A. The Ist subject begins with a sentence of 8 bars in G major followed by a section of 8 bars built
entirely upon the chord of the dominant 7th, the Ist sentence then re-appears curtailed to 6 bars.
B. The 2nd subject is in 4-bar rhythm, and is constructed upon bars 24-27, ending in A minor, bar 39,
followed by the chord of the dominant 7th.
C. After the second entry of the Ist subject there are 8 bars of the chord of the dominant 7th (bars
65-73) preparatory to the entry of the 3rd subject.
D. The 3rd subject commences with a sentence of 8 bars ending with full close in C major, which is
repeated. A passage in 4-bar rhythm, principally on dominant pedal point, (of C major) closing in G, leads
to the re-appearance of the first sentence. The last 2 bars are repeated twice, forming a little Codetta.
E. The 14 bars (125-139) formed upon the Ist subject ending on dominant, lead to the third entry of the
Ist subject.
F. Twenty-nine bars of a fragmentary character, built upon the Ist subject, occur before the succeeding
episode, bars 161-190.
G. This episode takes the place of the repetition of the 2nd subject, it begins and ends in G major (tonic),
and is based upon bars 191-192.
H. There is a tonic pedal point from bar 238 to the end.
8127                                        ( 21 )


