
C. The 2nd subject (instead of being in the dominant key) leads off with a passage of 8 bars in B
major, which is partly repeated in the bass, bars 75-78, in B minor. A series of sequences, bars 79-99,
passing through several keys, leads to a 2-bar figure in B minor, 99-1oo, which is repeated, bars 101-102, in
B major, and again, 103-104, in B minor; the same figure still in B minor continues to the end of the 2nd
subject, the time being diminished to one bar.
D. The development does not refer to the 2nd subject, but principally refers to the ist subject and to
the connecting episode (letter B).
E. The modulations to the keys of F and C are omitted (see letter A) in the re-appearance of the
Ist subject.
F.' The connecting episode is very much shortened, and it is altered so as to end on the dominant of E
major instead of the dominant of B major.
G. The 2nd subject (which should re-appear in the key of the tonic) commences with the first 8 bars
in E major (bars 221-228), partly repeated in E minor (bars 229-236), with a modulation to G major, in
which key these same bars re-occur (237-244). Bars 237-281 are a repetition of bars 67-111, harmonically
changed.
H. The Coda only refers to the Ist subject and the connecting episode.
SECOND MOVEMENT.
A. The Ist subject ends, bar 8, in the tonic key; bars 9-16 are a repetition of it, ending in the
dominant.
B. The episode commences with a 3-bar phrase, 16-19, modulating to D minor, repeated, bars 19-22,
a tone lower, and is followed by a modulation to the key of the dominant. It ends in that key, bar 26. A
cadenza leads back to the tonic key.
C. The 2nd part commences with a new episode in the key of Ah major, ending bar 54, followed by
some passages, principally upon dominant pedal point, suggestive of the episode (letter B), ending with full
close on tonic, bars 64-65, simultaneously with the re-entry of the Ist subject.
D. Though the Ist subject is considerably varied, the harmony is unchanged.
E. The same remark (letter D) also applies here as regards the episode. It is unusual for an episode
to re-appear without some harmonic change.
F. The Coda is of great interest, principally referring to the Ist subject.
THIRD MOVEMENT.
A. The ist subject is in two sections, bars 1-9 and 9-17, it ends bar 17; bars 17-33 being a varied
repetition of it.
B. This episode is entirely formed on the initial figure of the Ist subject. It begins in E minor and
modulates to D and then to A, in which key it ends, bar 43.
C. The 2nd subject consists of nothing but tonic and dominant harmony; the dominant appearing in
an inner part throughout.
D. The episode consists of a passage leading back to the tonic key.
E. The Ist subject re-appears without the repetition (letter A).
F. The development leads off with the Ist phrase of the Ist subject in G minor, in the bass, bars
83-87, followed by some canonical imitations, bars 87-99. The whole of it is based on the Ist subject.
G. In the 3rd entry of the Ist subject, the repetition which was omitted on its 2nd entry (letter E)
occurs varied.
H. The original corresponding episode (letter B) is lengthened, and ends in D major instead of in A,
as before.
J. This episode, which begins as at letter D, transposed to the tonic key, is here extended, and instead
of leading to the return of the Ist subject in its original form, it leads to a Coda, bar 207.
K. The Coda begins with a dominant pedal point, bearing contrapuntal references to the 2nd section
of the Ist subject. From bar 225 to the end there are several reminiscences of the Ist subject, which take
the place of the regular final return of that subject.

8127

( 33 )


