
FIRST MOVEMENT.
A. The Ist phrase of the first subject only consists of 31 bars, and the rhythm of it seems incomplete.
Three silent beatls at the beginning would make the phrase 4 bars, and therefore well defined; or the first
3 beats of bar 5 may be considered as belonging to the Ist phrase as well as to the 2nd phrase, the end of
the former overlapping the latter. The ist subject ends on the dominant.
B. The connecting episode begins (with a figure borrowed from bars 3-4) in the tonic key, soon after
foll wed by 2 bars in sequence; leading to 6 bars on pedal point (key of C major).
C. The Ist bar of the 2nd subject is accompanied by the passage which links the connecting episode
to it, transposed a fifth lower. This subject is divided into three portions-Ist portion, bars 23-3)1'"
2nd portion, 3I(1'-44; 3rd portion, 45-57. The 3rd portion begins very abruptly at bar 45, and robs the
2nd portion of the completion of its last phrase.
D. The beginning of the Coda is taken from the 2nd portion of the znd subject, upon pedal point.
E. The development is principally formed upon the Coda and the figure at the commencement of the
Ist subject; it closes upon the dominant 7th.
F. The connecting episode is altered so as to end in the dominant key, instead of the key of C, as
before.
G. The original Coda is almost literally transposed into tonic key.
SECOND MOVEMENT.
A. The connecting episode is not constructed upon previous material, but is in the form of an episode
beginning in tonic key and modulating to the dominant.
B. The 2nd subject is not referred to in the development, it being confined to the Ist subject.
C. The last 2 bars of the ist subject are omitted.
D. The connecting episode is altered to end in tonic key
THIRD MOVEMENT.
A. The " Minuetto " is in Aria form.
B. The " Trio " is in modified Sonata form.
FOURTH MOVEMENT.
A. The Ist subject commences with a section of 8 bars, ending in the dominant key, which is repeated
(varied), ending in tonic key, bar 17, two more bars being added, ending with full close in tonic key.
B. This modulating episode begins with a new figure of 2 bars in tonic key, after which it modulates
to the dominant key, in which it remains.
C. The 2nd subject consists entirely of arpeggio chords in the right hand in demisemiquavers, and the
same in the left hand in quavers; the first 5 bars are built upon tonic pedal point (of F major).
D. Bars 41-50 constitute a passage of imitation formed on figure of Ist subject, leading back to tonic
key.
E. The 2nd part begins with the first figure of the episode (letter B), which forms an important part
in this development. A new subject is introduced, bar 73.
F. This episode is constructed upon the same material as the original one (letter B), altered so as to
end in tonic key, instead of the dominant.
G. The concluding part of the 2nd subject is altered; instead of ending in the key in which it begins,
as it originally did, it modulates to the key of E, and leads into a transient return of the Ist subject.
H. Bars 153-165 form a passage founded upon Ist subject leading to the final entry of that subject.
J. At the commencement of the Coda a new figure is introduced, it ends with a reference to the Ist
subject.

8127

( 23 )


