
FIRST MOVEMENT.
A. The Ist subject is constructed almost entirely upon the ist bar rhythm, it ends at bar 8"'; bars
9-13 being a varied and prolonged repetition of bars 5-8'.
B. The connecting episode is formed of new material; it ends upon the dominant, which is unusual.
C. The 2nd subject (which is adapted from an early Pianoforte Quartet*) begins with a 2-bar phrase,
succeeded by a 4-bar phrase. It is in 2 parts, G minor (dominant minor), bars 27-45, and G major
(dominant major), bar 47-77. The 2nd subject recurs in C minor (tonic minor) and C major (tonic major),
bars 162-182. See also Op. 2, No. 2, Ist movement.
D. The Coda commences with a short subject, which is afterwards introduced at the beginning of the
development.
E. The development begins with the subject referred to in letter D, followed by a brilliant passage in
arpeggios. At bars 103-104 there is an enharmonic modulation leading to the Ist subject in D major, bar
Ino. It closes upon dominant pedal point.
F. The Ist subject re-appears shortened; the varied repetition of bars 5-8 being omitted.
G. The brilliant 8 bars at the commencement of the connecting episode are omitted, and a development
of the last 2 bars of the Ist subject are substituted. The last part is unaltered.
H. The Coda begins with the same subject as in the enunciation, followed by a passage in arpeggios
leading to a cadenza, after which the movement ends with a reference to the Ist subject.
SECOND MOVEMENT.
A. This movement is in modified Rondo form.
B. The Ist subject ends at bar 8"; bars 8( ii' being a varied prolongation of bars 6(-8".
C. The 2nd subject instead of being in B major is principally in E minor and G major. It may be
divided into 2 parts; the Ist part, bars I-19ig, beginning in E minor and ending in G major; the 2nd
part, bars 19-251, beginning and ending in G major. Bars 26-37(a consist of a development of part I, and
bars 37-43() of a varied repetition of part 2.
D. There is no second part of any kind to this movement.
E. The Ist subject, which usually re-appears at the commencement of the 3rd part, is only represented
by 2 bars in C major suggestive of the Ist subject.
F. The 2nd subject re-appears considerably curtailed. It commences with a passage, bars 55-58,
suggestive of the Ist part, modulating to E major, in which key the 2nd part occurs. Bars 26-42 are omitted.
G. The Coda refers to the ist subject.
THIRD MOVEMENT.
A. The Scherzo is in modified Sonata form.
B. The Ist subject ends on half-close, bar 9).
C. At bar 30 of'the development a figure is introduced, which appears in the Coda.
D. The Trio is in modified Sonata form.
E. Instead of the usual double bar and repeat, the repetition is written out in full, with slight
alterations at the end.
FOURTH MOVEMENT.
A. The Ist subject consists of two sections of equal length, (4 bars) both constructed upon the same
rhythm, forming a sentence of 8 bars.
B. The episode is formed upon dominant pedal point, followed by a varied repetition of the Ist section
of the Ist subject, and some development of bars 4-5.
C. The 2nd subject commences in G major, it modulates to G minor, bar 44, and ends bar 64, after 8
bars upon dominant pedal point.
D. Bars 64-69 form a passage leading to the second entry of the Ist subject.
E. The development commences with a reference to the Ist subject followed by a passage leading to
the 3rd subject, which enters in F major, bar 104, in 2-bar rhythm. At bar 144 there is a development of
the first two phrases of the 3rd subject ending upon dominant pedal point, which continues for 13 bars,
preparatory to the 3rd entry of the Ist subject.
F. The Ist subject re-appears with a varied elongation.
G. The last 5 bars of the episode are altered to end in G instead of D. Compare bars 25-29 with
213-217.
H. The Ist part of the 2nd subject re-appears transposed into tonic key and elongated by 2 bars.
The 2nd part remains in the same key as before, slightly varied.
J. Bars 254-259 form a passage preparatory to the 4th entry of the Ist subject.
K. The re-appearance of the Ist subject takes the form of a Coda. The Ist subject does not appear in
its entirety. Note the inverted pedal point, bars 260-265, and the prolonged interrupted cadence where the
chord of the dominant seventh (by raising the fifth D to I1#) resolves into the chord of A major, bar 299.
* Dictionary of Music (Grove).
8127                                        ( 7 )


