
FIRST MOVEMENT.
A. The Ist subject consists of 12 bars divided into 3 sections of 4 bars each.
B. The connecting episode begins with the first 2 bars of the Ist subject, which are repeated with the
addition of D# (enharmonic modulation Eb D#) to the harmony, producing the chord of the augmented 6th
resolving on dominant of A (this resolution takes place 3 times), an unusual chord to precede fhe key of
C major. (See bars 17-18, Third movement, Sonata, No. 5.)
C. The 2nd subject commences, in C major, with three 4-bar phrases, the last modulating to G major,
in which key there is a passage, bars 3I-37(', consisting of tonic and dominant harmony, leading to a new
phrase of 4 bars which is repeated (varied) in C minor. A chord of the diminished 7th on F#, bar 47, is
followed by another new 4-bar phrase, bars 48-51, after which 2 bars of the triplet figure (bar 2) lead to a
full close in C major.
D. The Coda consists of a 4-bar phrase repeated with slight variations and elongations. At bar 64
there is a curious harmonic combination of the chord of the diminished 7th (supertonic root) on inverted
dominant pedal.
E. There is no " working out," i its place is an eisode. It begins in D minor. Bars 85-89 resemble
bars 79-83 transposed into G minor, the same 4 bars ar transposed into Bb major, bars 93-97. A recurrence
of the Ist part of the episode in Bb major and Bb minor, and some episodal modulation, lead to the chord of
the dominant of the key of D, the episode ending on that chord.
F. The Ist subject is in D major instead of being in tonic key.
G. The connecting episode re-appears with some modulating bars based upon the Ist subject, followed
by the 2nd and 3rd sections of the Ist subject in the key of the tonic, bars 140-148.
H. A sequential passage formed upon the first phrase of the 2nd subject, bars 157-166, does not appear
in the enunciation.
J. The final cadence of the Coda is repeated.
K. The repetition of development and recapitulation is unusual.
SECOND MOVEMENT.
A. Menuetto and Trio, though designated " Allegretto."
B. The Ist part (Menuetto) is in modified Sonata form.
C. There is no development, but an episode in the form of a sequence ending on the dominant.
D. The 2nd part (Trio) is in modified Sonata form.
E. These repetitions undoubtedly take the place of the usual double bar and repeat.
F. The development is very short, it is based on the Ist subject.
G. After the 2nd part there is a passage of 6 bars, 122-127, leading back to the key of the tonic.
H. The Ist part is repeated considerably varied. The bass of the episode, bars 144-151, is written in
quavers, and on the recurrence of the Ist subject syncopation is freely employed.
THIRD MOVEMENT.
A. The Ist subject, consisting of 4 bars, leads off (in the bass) in fugal style answerea at the 8th, bar 5
(in the treble).
B. The connecting episode, which is in the key of the dominant, begins with the first subject, upon
which it is founded.
C. The 2nd subject is written upon a pedal point.
D. The development refers to the Ist subject principally. Note the appearance of the 2nd subject
(varied) in the key of D major, bar 71. The development ends on dominant 7th, bar 87, succeeded by a
scale passage which overlaps the entry of the Ist subject.
E. The Ist subject re-appears accompanied by a scale passage.
F. The connecting episode re-appears beginning with a passage of 4 bars (96-lIoo) in G minor. This
passage is repeated in G minor and Bb major, bars ioo-io8. A brilliant variation of the Ist subject, beginning in Bb minor and ending on the dominant chord, leads to the re-entry of the 2nd subject in the tonic key.
G. The 2nd subject re-appears extended, forming a short Coda.
H. The repetition of development and recapitulation is unusual.
8127                                        ( 13 )


