
FIRST MOVEMENT.
A. The Ist subject is constructed on two distinct figures, bars 1-2 and 5-6. It ends with full close on
the tonic, bar 17&gt;'
B. The connecting episode commences with a 4-bar passage, bars 17-20, which appears inverted, bars
21-24. It ends on pedal point.
C. The 2nd subject may be divided into 4 parts, all in the key of the dominant:-Ist part, bars 41-59;
2nd part, bars 59-93; 3rd part, bars 93-II1; 4th part, bars II-I127a. The latter is entirely constructed on
dominant pedal point.
D. The Coda consists of two bars (Iz27'-I28) repeated (varied) 3 times in succession, simply
confirming the perfect cadence.
E. The development contains references to the Ist subject, the connecting episode figure, bars
141-163, and also to some material found in the Coda.
F. The Ist subject re-appears shortened, the concluding 4 bars being omitted.
G. The connecting episode re-appears considerably altered; it branches off from what was before
the concluding phrase of the Ist subject; at bar 215 it reverts to the original, the last 6 bars of which (with
slight inversion of parts) appear transposed into B1 major.
H. The Coda only resembles the original in the first 6 bars, it then refers to both the Ist and 2nd
subjects and to the ist Coda.
SECOND MOVEMENT.
A. The key of C is an unusual one for a 2nd movement when the Ist movement is in the key of Eb.
B. The ist subject consists of an 8-bar sentence ending in C major, followed by a 4-bar sentence in
G major, after which there is a varied and extended repetition of bars 1-8.
C. There is no connecting episode.
D. The 2nd subject, instead of being in G major, appears in Ab major; it only consists of a phrase
of 4 bars.
E. The development commences with a 4-bar phrase in F minor based on 2nd subject, bars 29-32.
At bar 33 a great portion of the 2nd subject appears in Db major. Bars 37-50 constitute a passage, leading
back to tonic key, which contains some development of the Ist subject.
F. The 2nd subject re-appears transposed into tonic key, varied and extended.
G. The Coda chiefly refers to previous material; the last 4 bars consist of a varied repetition of bars
1-4 differently harmonised.
THIRD MOVEMENT.
A. These movements really constitute a Minuet and Trio, though not so designated.
B. The Allegro (Minuet) is in Sonata form.
C. The Ist subject ends with half-close on the dominant.
D. The connecting episode consists of bars 1-4 altered at the end by the insertion of a cadence in
C minor, which is repeated in Bb major (dominant).
E. The 2nd subject commences with a figure taken from bars 3s)-4(), which is repeated 4 times.
F. The development begins with a canonical reference to the ist subject.
G. The connecting episode re-appears extended; it commences with the same material as before,
transposed into Eb minor, followed by a passage in CU major; it ends on the chord of the augmented 6th
key of Eb major, followed by 2 bars on the dominant.
H. The 2nd subject re-appears varied and extended and transposed into tonic key.
J. The Coda is constructed on pedal point in the bass.
K. The " Minore " (Trio) is in modified Sonata form.
L. This movement is in triplets throughout.
M. The development begins in Bb minor and ends in Eb minor.
N. The ist subject re-appears altered so as to end in tonic key.
O. The Coda is built upon tonic pedal point in the bass.
FOURTH     MOVEMENT.
A. The Ist subject consists of a sentence of 8 bars, ending with full close on tonic, repeated varied,
bars 98)-I7(2).
B. The episode begins with a phrase borrowed from the Ist subject (bars 9-10). It modulates
to the dominant, in which key a new figure is introduced in the bass (bars 25-26), the latter part
of which is repeated 12 times in the succeeding 8 bars. It ends with full close in Bb major.
C. The 2nd subject consists of a sentence of 8 bars (37/8)-45a)), beginning in C minor and ending in
B)l major. Bars 45-48 are a varied repetition of bars 43-44. After the 2nd subject there follows a passage
leading to tonic key, bars 49-51.
si27                                        ( 9  )


