
C. The 2nd subject begins with a sentence of 8 bars in A major, partly repeated, bars 61-66, in A minor,
followed by a new phrase (the bass of which is taken from the beginning of the first subject), which is
developed at some length, giving place at bar 88 to a passage in A major, which brings the 2rnd section to a
close, bar 94.
D. The Coda consists of some new material and slight references to the Ist subject, for the most part
on a pedal point.
E. Bars II4")-I25 form a passage leading to the repetition of the enunciation, after which, with bars
126-134, it leads to the development.
F. The development, beginningin Bh major, chiefly refers to the ist subject, the rhythm of the first
5 bars of which, is the basis upon which most of it is constructed; compare rhythm of bars 135"'-I39(' with
bars 1-5''. It ends on dominant 7th, bar 185.
G. The connecting episode, after a few bars, modulates to E minor, in which key the introductory theme
to the 2nd subject re-appears, after which the part originally in the key of A major is transposed into D major.
H. The 2nd subject re-appears, slightly altered and transposed, to begin and end in the tonic key,
instead of in the dominant key.
J. The Coda is slightly altered and transposed to end in D major.
SECOND MOVEMENT.
A. The ist subject is of 9 bars length, the first section of 4 bars being lengthened to 5 bars; it begins
and ends in tonic key.
B. The connecting epsiode begins in D minor and ends in C major; it consists of two sections of
4 bars each.
C. The second subject instead of being in the relative major is in the dominant minor key. It begins
with a sentence of 4 bars, which is repeated, varied, and elongated.
D. The Coda is formed from a part of the connecting episode, bars 13"-15.
E. The development contains very little working out. It consists of an episode in F major, modulating
to D minor, and ending on dominant pedal point.
F. The second section of the first subject is omitted.
Gy. The connecting episode re-appears altered for the first 4 bars, after which it is transposed from
C major to BO major.
H. The Coda is entirely altered, the first 2 bars of the Ist subject appear in the bass, accompanied by
a semiquaver figure in the treble, after which the bass rises chromatically from AM to the octave above
(omitting F#). The harmony abounds in chords of the diminished 7th. A pedal point on A (the dominant)
and some slight reminiscences of the Ist subject bring the Coda to a close.
THIRD MOVEMENT.
A. The Menuetto is in Aria form.
B. The Ist subject consists of a section of 8 bars, ending with half-close on the dominant, followed by
another section of the same length, ending with full close in tonic key.
C. The modulating episode consists of a 3-bar subject answered (omitting the first note) at the
fourth above.
D. The first subject re-appears varied and extended. The first 3 bars are accompanied by an inverted
pedal point on the dominant.
E. The form of the Trio is that of a simple melody.
F. The first 16 bars which close on the chord of D are repeated (bars 17 to the end) with slight
alterations, finishing on the chord of the dominant 7th of D.
FOURTH MOVEMENT.
A. The Ist subject consists of a section of 4 bars ending in dominant key, followed by a section of the
same length, ending with full close in tonic key.
B. This episode begins with a phrase of 2 bars in D major, which is repeated three times, modulating to.A major, in which key occurs another phrase of 4 bars, which is partly repeated, ending on dominant 7th.
C. This episode in B% major overlaps the last chord of the Ist subject. it begins with 2 bars
of introduction suggestive of the commencement of the 1st subject, followed by a phrase, bars 36-38k1) which
is repeated in G minor and E major. A passage, bars 42-46, in the latter key, ends on dominant
7th of F major; this is succeeded by some episodal modulation founded on the 1st subject and ending
on dominant 7th, bar 56.
D. This episode begins like that in part Ir; there is some fresh material at the end of it based upon the
rhythm of the Ist figure of the Ist subject.
E. The Coda *is very original and contains many points of interest: note the rising sequence
(bars 94-97), the pause on the chord of the rIth (bar 100), the first subject figure in the bass against
the chromatic runs in the treble (bars IO8-Iii), and the pedal point (bars io8 to the end).
8127                                         ('5)


