
232

der the head of " Treatment after Delivery," will in
most cases remove this. If not, arnica should be
applied externally.
two globules of Arnica. The patient used also the arnica lotion,
and with such benefit and refreshment as to cause her to express
her feelings in regard to the arnica, "It is worth a shilling a drop."
She passed the night tolerably well.
In the morning the arnica globules were repeated; also the lotion was again used.
The effects were marked: though delivered by instruments,
there were no after pains, or at least so trifling as not to be deemed
by herself worthy of notice. No symptoms of.fever or of inflammation presented themselves, and she recovered most rapidly.
In reference to the baby, the effects of the arnica were quite as
well marked. The following is the description by the father:
" The baby's head was bruised and crushed in a most pitiable
manner. Of what shape it is I can hardly describe. It is alive,
but unless you can do something for it, I think it cannot live. The
surgeon is of opinion it will go of in convulsions." This statement was in a letter to me from Manchester.
Mr. K. bathed the infant's head four hours after birth, with the
arnica lotion, and repeated the bathing the following morning. At
eleven at night, on Dec. 14, it was convulsed, the head and the
face becoming quite black. Mr. K. administered chamomilla, and
it recovered. The following morning it had a slight convulsion.
It cried much during the night. Excepting the head, it is a fine
child. It seems unable to swallow easily. The head is of all
shapes. The centre of the forehead, round Benevolence, is very
large or swelled, and the back part of the head is all forced to one
side. The mouth is distorted; the right side of the face is much
swollen; and the inside of the mouth is in a dreadful state.
" Can anything be done for it? "
I ordered aconite to be followed by arnica; and then, if there
was no decided improvement, to give Rhus Toxicodendron: if convulsions should recur, Chamomilla: and if this failed, Ignatia.
On Dec. 17, I heard that the baby was doing well; no convulsive symptoms; no fever. The arnica lotion has been used ever
since. The head is almost well: and the baby sucks and eats very
well.
Feb. 1842, I saw the little dear: it was hearty and joyful, and
observant. The head of a natural form, and no indications of any
of the inconveniences to which it had been subjected.
Nov. 31, 1843, I saw this child and he was hearty and well: his
head, which, as above detailed, was of all shapes, is of a natural
shape.


