
11
greatly depress the vital energies and prevent the development of the healthy secretion of the surface which cold
ablution tends to induce.
Towards the close of these epochs teething has advanced,
and other physical changes in function and structure continue, when voluntary motions, creeping and walking, are
attempted in succession, and there is seldom much fear of
disease if there has been no improper medication, or there
is no hereditary predisposition to disease, and the infant
has been accustomed to healthy out-door exercise and comfortable dress.
The most suitable time for weaning is from the tenth to
the fourteenth month, and then there ought to be at least
six or eight teeth quite through the gums. The child
should be gradually accustomed to food other than that
drawn from the breasts of the mother, from the fifth month
upward, but at first it should be of the Inildest and blandest
kind.' Animal food is seldom required, or indeed proper,
during the firstyear; nature has pointed out the period for
this, in the preparation of teeth to masticate it. During
these epochs the infant is less liable to all infections and
exanthematous diseases; we often find it most difficult to
make an impression with the vaccine virus during nursing.
The period of childhood extends from the second year
to the seventh or eighth year, when the second dentition is
being completed. Catarrhal fevers, and the various diseases
from indigestion of improper food, are common towards the
latter part of this period. The shedding of teeth requires
special attention; while the parent should not be slow in
having the decayed teeth extracted, they should be careful
not to be too precipitate in this matter.
The early extraction of the milk teeth, long before the
second and permanent teeth are advancing, allows the alveolar process to be absorbed, and the jaw settling away prevents the uniformity and regularity which not only preserves the symmetry but the comfort of the owner; on the
other hand leaving them too long is equally objectionable.
The best course is always to consult a skilful dentist fre

