
14

matic, the bilious, and the nervous. A melancholic temperament is also considered independently by some.
1st. The sanguine temperament is characterized by moderate plumpness of person and firmness of flesh. The
hair is red or bright chestnut, the eyes blue, the complexion fair and florid, and the skin soft and thin. The bloodvessels are large, the circulation active, and the pulse full
and frequent. The countenance is animated, the movements quick, the passions excitable, the mind volatile and
unsteady.
2d. The phlegmatic temperament is distinguished by
roundness of form, softness of the muscles, and repletion
of the cellular tissue. The hair is fair, the eyes light blue
or gray, the skin pale, and the lips fleshy. The bloodvessels are small, the circulation languid, and the pulse
slow. It takes a great deal to arouse one of this temperament.
3d. The bilious temperament is recognized by moderate
plumpness and much firmness of flesh, with harshly expressed outlines of person, strongly-marked features, and
decided expression of countenance. The hair is black, the
eyes and the complexion dark. The pulse is full, firm, and
of moderate frequency. There is much energy of character, with great power of endurance and permanence of impression, physical and mental.
4th. The nervous temperament is distinguished by a
small, spare form, delicate features, with thin upper lip,
slender muscles, quick movements, pallor of countenance,
and feeble health. The pulse is feeble, and quick, and
easily excited by mental emotions or nervous impressions.
The whole nervous system, including the brain, is active,
the senses are acute, the thoughts quick, and the imagination lively.
5th. The melancholic temperament is nearly allied to the
bilious, and is marked by peculiar calmness and seriousness
of mind, with a great tenacity of impressions, and a tendency to indulge in gloomy thoughts.
It is rare that we meet with pure specimens of these
temperaments. They are often so combined that it is difficult to say which predominates.


