
273

na, will explain what is best to be done after the
removal.
Children swallow buttons and farthings* and other
* The following case, in which a FARTHTNG WAS SWALLOWED
and discharged a MONTH and a DAY after the period of its being
swallowed, may be instructive, and illustrative of the remarks in
this section.
Rebecca Bragg, aged two years, was brought to me April II,
1844, her mother being in considerable trouble because the child
had swallowed a farthing.
Castor oil had been administered to the child, before she was
brought to me. She vomited blood after the farthing was swallowed. I prescribed Arnica, three globules to be taken during the
course of the week: this was on account of the blood.
April 18.- She has been and is very sick, and has cried when
she eats, but she has cried less the last two days: she has not vomited any blood. Her mother states that she passes, by stool, substances, like flakes of white paper.
I ordered Pulsatilla, three globules (for her sickness and the peculiar stools), to be taken during the week.
April 25. - The sickness very much better: she does not cry:
has passed no more portions like paper. Her mother expressed
with satisfaction, " She is much better." I ordered Pulsatilla to
be repeated, but the doses at longer intervals.
May 4. - She has passed the farthing: it having been retained
within her one month and a day.
The farthing, which the mother brought, was of a late coinage.
Its surface was dingy, presenting an appearance, somewhat similar
to that produced by the action of fire on a metallic body. She
passed it without any apparent pain. Her sickness is altogether
gone.
This case shows how absurd is the common notion, that such
bodies must be expelled, and that forthwith, from the intestinal
canal. There can be but little doubt that most of the injuries, recorded by writers, as resulting from the swallowing coins, are
produced by the purgatives used on such occasions, these purgatives destroying the healthy condition of the intestinal canal, and
thereby rendering the coin injurious: not because the passing of
the coin is destructive, but because the medical practitioner has
made a diseased surface by the poisonous purgative, over which
the coin has to pass, and has thereby produced, by thus diseasing
the intestinal surface, a condition of the secreted fluids, which
causes them to act powerfully on the coin in the passage, which
18


