
13

four beats of the pulse; but this is subject to even greater
variations, according to age, sex, temperament, &amp;c., than
that of the pulse. Posture, sleep, and all causes which
vary the pulses, have a like effect upon the respiration, the
number of the respiration may be varied by the will, however, and the pulse cannot be.
At birth the number is about 46 respirations.
At 5 years   "        "  32    "
From 15 to 50 years  c"  20     "
The respirations of the female on an average is a trifle
more frequent, except when the free expansion of their
chests are prevented by improper dress, when the respirations are very short and mainly confined to the upper part
of the lungs; the bosom heaves, while the waist, diaphragm and abdomen, remain stationary. This is a fruitful
source of pulmonary disease, and cannot be too strongly
reprobated. The time occupied in emptying the lungs of
air after an inspiration, is not longer than that occupied by
a patient far advanced in the consumption, which is not
more than ten seconds, whereas healthy adult lungs can occupy from thirty to forty seconds in emptying them after a
full inspiration. Mr. Abernethy's method of measuring the
capacity of the lungs, consisted in causing the patient to
take as deep an inspiration as possible, and then expire,
through a bent tube under an inverted jar containing water, the quantity of water displaced being the measure of
the capacity of the lungs. If the lungs were healthy,
from six to eight pints would be displaced, a less quantity
than this being evidence of disease or pressure from without in proportion to the decrease. Physicians have better
means than this, but these will do for laymen, who would
only be confused by multiplying directions for diagnosing
those diseases which none but the experienced can well
understand.
The temperaments have some influence on the pulse.
The sanguine and nervous have a more frequent pulse than
the lymphatic and bilious. Having almost unconciously
touched upon the temperaments, I shall have to give a brief
description of them in order to satisfy the reader. There
are four temperaments recognized: the sanguine, the phleg

