
15

While I have endeavored to avoid all interference with
the author's text, I have found it necessary, in order to
meet the wants of this country, to enlarge upon it, and add
several i.rportant articles to it. In doing this, brevity and
accuracy have been more constantly aimed at than elegance
of style.
The entire class of fevers are added to this addition,
also Tic Doulouroux, Rickets, Leucorrhea, and several other
diseases, and several remedies which have lately been introduced into our materia medica, Protiodide Mercury, Kalmia
latifolia, Bichromate of Potash, &amp;c., all valuable remedies,
are added, and will be found in their appropriate places.
The author's directions are confined to the use of pellets.
My plan is to have a duplicate of a few of the leading remedies for a family case, and then acute diseases which appear to resist the high attenuations, may be subdued by the
low dilutions or tinctures; for I know, by repeated observation, that colic, inflammation of the lungs, cholera morbus,
fevers, and other severe diseases, are promptly and safely
cured by drops of the tinctures of the appropriate remedies,
without any alarming aggravations.
I will remark, as a general rule when not otherwise directed in the treatment of the disease, that whenever the
drops are selected for use, drop two drops in a tumbler half
full of water, and administer one tablespoonful if the patient be an adult, or one teaspoonful if it be a child, every
quarter, half, one, two, or four hours in acute diseases,
once a day or less frequently in chronic diseases. If the
medicine be in powder, put as much as will lay on a sixpenny piece on the tongue, unless it is otherwise directed
in the text. Antimony tart. should always be dissolved in
water, and given as above directed. If the symptoms are
relieved, discontinue the medicine altogether, or allow the
intervals between the doses to be linger; if no relief is
manifest after the second or third dose, you may be very
certain that the medicine is not properly indicated, and it
will be your duty to select another more appropriate one.
GEORGE W. COOK, M.D.
New York, Nov. 24, 1847.


