
12

quently during the process of decay, unless the fangs are
so far absorbed as to be easily detached with the finger.
Free exercise in the open, pure atmosphere, with wholesome nourishment, should form a part of the every-day
business of the child. Sleeping in large well-ventilated
apartments should be attended to by the parents. In employing the faculties of the mind, care should be taken not
to fatigue the child, or deprive it of that healthful exercise
of the physical functions heretofore spoken of. Its mental
exercises should be more a matter of amusement than of
exertion, until about the seventh year; prior to this great
injury may be done, by confining a child to a sitting posture on a hard bench, three hours in the forenoon and three
hours in the afternoon, in a crowded and badly ventilated
apartment, such as we often find in our school-rooms.
After having glanced at the peculiarities of age, it may
be useful to notice the other natural changes of respiration
and pulsations, as age advances; to which temperaments
may be added, as exerting an influence in health and
disease.
The average pulsation of infants from eight days to six
months old, has been set down, from repeated observations
and notes taken from healthy subjects, at 131 for boys, and
134 for girls; from six to twenty-one months, the average
for boys was 113, and for girls 126; the extremes vary
far above and below the average.
The pulse of the adult male is stated to be 70, that of
the adult female at 80; the highest number is rather less
than 100 in the adult male, and somewhat more than 110
in the adult female; 50 may be considered the least number in each, and the healthy standard preserved, although
much lower numbers have been observed, and good health
still considered to exist. Thus we see a mere departure
from the uniform standard of pulsations is not a sure evidence of ill health, and shows how important it is to be
able to comprehend all the operations of the human system, in order fully to understand the true disease.
The average respirations (i. e. inspirations and expirations) may be set down at 18 for the adult, or one for every


