
312


APPENDIX.


in the street to-night at half-past eleven, she was suddenly seized
with severe cramps in the abdomen and legs. She would have fallen had she not been supported and led into the house. We saw
her first at twelve, P.M., on the 21st of October. Her abdomen was
much swelled, she had severe cramps in the legs, shivering and coldness all over the body. Frequent muttering delirium, tossing about
in the bed; complains much of cold. Great desire to vomit, little
ejected; pulse slow and weak.
Tinct. Camphor, in water every quarter of an hour.
22d, one, A.M.-Much better.
Verat., 3d dil., every half-hour.
At the visit during the day, 22d October, found she was quite
recovered.
CASE XXII.
Mrs. T., aged 23, subject to dyspeptic attacks. She awoke this
morning, 4th November, about six, A.M., with vertigo, noise in her
ears, nausea, and pain in the epigastrium. We first saw her at
seven, A.M., same day. She has vomited (three times in an hour) a
large quantity of a greenish watery liquid. She complains of pain
in the stomach and head. Skin cold; pulse 120, irregular; painful dry retchings, no purging.
Tinct. Camphor, every ten minutes.
One, P.M.-No vomiting; occasional pains in her stomach and
through her head; taken no food; rather thirsty.
Continue Camph. every half-hour till relieved.
5th November, noon.-Says she is better; has some weight and
pain in epigastrium, and feels a little nausea.
Continue Camph.
6th November, two, P.M.-She is sitting up, and is quite well.
CASE XXIII.
Mrs. T., aged 24.-Has had a cold for several weeks, but been
out every day visiting her husband, who is in the infirmary, labouring under phthisis. Is in circumstances of great poverty and destitution, living chiefly on tea, which she takes twice a day. She
was last night attending her uncle, whom she left dying of cholera
between ten and eleven, P.M. She states that at that time she was
seized with tremor over the whole body, which continues with chilliness, vertigo, and noise in the head. She took whisky and pepper



