
APPENDIX.


341


sleep; medicine made him sick; frequent desire to purge, stools
slightly faeculent; frequent abortive desire to urinate, the urine
passed is scalding; thirst much less; pulse 88, pretty full; feeling
of emptiness in stomach, and frothy vomiting.
Secale, 3d, hourly.
Two, P.M.-Doing well; urine still scalding.
Eight, P.M.-Scalding gone.
13th, nine, A.M.-Restless night; some purging, stools fteculent;
pulse 88, good strength; tongue furred; empty retching; uneasiness in epigastrium, increased on pressure; urinating freely.
Continue Secale.
Nine, P.M.-Sitting up in bed taking sago; feels better.
14th.-Feels much better.
CASE LXIII.
Mrs. D., aged 56.-IHas been ill with bowel complaint since yesterday morning; everything she takes passes from her bowels undigested; she has a constant desire to evacuate, with cutting pains,
headach, nausea, and inclination to vomit. Was seized on the 15th
December, at twelve, P.M., with severe cramps in the feet, legs, and
right arm, and in the stomach, with a feeling as if she was going to
be choked. First seen at seven, P.M., 15th December. The cramps
are somewhat diminished, but there is still severe pain in the
stomach; sensation of choking; tongue clean and adhesive; face
has a dusky appearance; eyeballs leaden-coloured; dejections frequent, of a brownish colour; has urinated regularly, but scantily;
pulse 86; great thirst.
Arsenicum, 3, every half-hour.
16th, five, P.M.-Cramps returned with great severity at three
o'clock, (some one gave her brandy); they continue now unabated;
it is scarcely possible to hold her in bed, from the intensity of the
cramps; has been vomiting incessantly for an hour.
Continue, with Veratrum alternately, half-hourly.
Nine, A.M.-Nausea; vomited and purged twice since last visit;
pulse 92, stronger; skin warmer; slight cramps.
Omit Veratrum: continue Arsenic.
Half-past eleven, P.M.-Vomiting everything taken; no purging
since last visit; cold; cramps less severe.
Continue. To drink warm water.



