
APPENDIX.


293


and night, was seized at four o'clock on the morning of the 1 Oth of
October, with cramps in the stomach and limbs, and purging and
vomiting. She had taken two opium pills of three grains in each.
Her friends having heard of our Dispensary being open, and not
knowing where else to find a doctor, sent there about eight o'clock.
When seen she was cold, pulse imperceptible; there was violent
vomiting. She got Camphor, and afterwards Veratrum, Arsenicum,
Ipecac., and Cuprumi. At one o'clock the pulse was perceptible, and
there was no vomiting nor purging. She seemed a little better. She
sunk rapidly, and died at five o'clock, P.M., without the least struggle. So complete was the collapse, that it was impossible to say for
some time whether she was dead or living.
CASE III.
A woman, aged 33, has been for many years, especially the last
two, very intemperate. Was drinking to excess on Monday, and
to some extent for the two succeeding days. Four months pregnant. Wretchedly poor, lying on a piece of cloth on the floor, and
naked, covered merely with a tattered gown.  Was seized at five
last night with vomiting and purging. Had taken porridge for supper, which was returned; the evacuations at first watery, latterly
described as bloody.  Since morning evacuations less frequent.
Cramps began about seven last night, and were very severe all
night; abated since morning. Seen at noon of the 12th of October.
Skin of the whole body cold and clammy, the hands and face blue,
the features contracted and sharpened, eyes deeply sunk; eyes and
mouth surrounded with blue circles; tongue and roof of mouth cold,
the former covered with yellowish fur, felt flabby like a piece of
raw meat; breath cold; no pulsation could be detected at the wrist,
temporal artery, or heart; breathing regular; complained of pain
in epigastrium, increased on pressure, great thirst; oppression of
the chest; throwing off the covering, complained of its weight;
vomited about half an hour after she was seen, clear water, without
smell, and apparently unmixed with mucus; evacuations from the
bowels at intervals of half an hour, of a dusky red watery fluid, containing brown and white flocculi; was sensible when bowels were
moved, and complained of some heat in ano; no urine passed since
the previous evening. Sensible when spoken to, but wandering at
times, and talking indistinctly; voice hoarse.



