
APPENDIX.


297


CASE IX.
E. M., aged 40, a woman of intemperate habits, and who had
been drinking much the last few days, was for three days ill of diar-.rhbea and pain in the side, which had confined her to bed for two days.
When seen for the first time, at half-past nine o'clock, P.M., on the
27th October, she was found covered with cold, clammy perspiration; the pulse was imperceptible; she complained much of oppression and of heat, and vomited everything she took; she had also
watery purging. The tongue was cold, with a white fur upon it;
the eyes half-open and turned up. Had been treated by an Allopath up to the hour of our visit, who had given pills, and creosote,
and brandy.
Hydrocyanic Acid, 2d dil., a dose every quarter of an hour.
Half-past ten, P.M.-No vomiting; no other change.
Arsen., 3d dil.
Died at half-past eleven. Two hours under our treatment.
CASE X.
Mrs. F., aged 46, went to bed in her usual health between nine
and ten, P.M., on the 29th of October; felt pain in the head and
chilly during the night, and especially between three and four o'clock
the following morning, when the bowels were copiously moved, and
she began to vomit with each evacuation of the bowels, which occurred every eight or ten minutes; had also cramps in the legs and
pain at epigastrium. When seen first, a little after six o'clock of
the same morning, her face was cold and ghastly, and had a peculiarly melancholy expression; she frequently repeated the words,
" What is with me?  I cannot live, I cannot live."  She was very
restless; the pulse languid and intermittent, and the skin ice cold;
she complained of pain in the loins.
Secale, ist dil., every five minutes.
After a little time she was violently cramped in the fingers and
toes. She then got Camphor, repeated at short intervals. There
was no vomiting for quarter of an hour; pulse became more languid, 76 in a minute, scarcely perceptible; vomited and purged
twice during the next quarter of an hour; very restless; sighing
and panting for want of breath.
She then got Arsen., 3d dil.
Quarter past seven, A.M. —Pulse gone; cold, clammy perspira


