
318


APPENDIX.


stomach, with great stiffness both of arms and legs; could scarcely
move and not walk without support; nausea and dry retching; no
purging; has not urinated since rising in the morning; has had
laudanum and whisky, and pepper, which seemed to make him worse.
First seen at half-past eleven, P.M. Found him with his feet in
warm water, bellowing furiously; would not tell at first where his
pain was; face flushed; clammy perspiration; skin hot; pulse
164, pretty full; shaking and shivering from pain; epigastrium
tender on pressure; great thirst; face dark; very anxious.
Camphor every five minutes.
After the fourth dose the severity of the pain began to diminish,
and he passed fully lb. ij. of limpid urine; felt easier, though still
moaning loudly.
Continue.
9th, six, A.M.-Cramps continued till four, A.M., when he fell
asleep; slept till now, and he is quite free from pain; urinated at
four, A.M.; no motion of bowels; pulse 76, regular; skin of natural
temperature.
10th.-Is free from pain; bowels regular; urinating freely.
Five, P.M.-Relapsed after taking soup and rabbit to dinner;
pains as before, but not so violent; no urine since morning.
Repeat Camphor.
Nine, P.M.-Pains reported less severe, but constant sharp pain
all through body.
Cuprum Aceticum, 3d, every hour.
11th, half-past eight, A.M.-Urinated twice: bowels thrice
moved; pulse 72, natural; tongue dry; pain over the whole abdomen, increased on pressure; great thirst; no cramps after eight
last night; some giddiness still remaining.
China, 3d, thrice a day.
Two, P.M.-Reported much better.
12th.-Found up supping porridge; says he is well.
CASE XXXIV.
Mrs. D., aged 56.-Has been a tippler for years, but her son says
she has been tolerably sober for three months. Admits she has
had whisky to-day. Has had two glasses just before visit; is talkative, afraid of the doctor, and in great terror lest she should be removed to hospital. Unwilling to give an account of her state.
States that she has felt giddy and queer all day; passed no urine



