
314


APPENDIX.


CASE XXVI.
E. M., a girl, aged 21.-A stranger, and given shelter in the
house where she is. She states that she took spirits during the day
on account of pain in the epigastrium, and felt tolerably well till
about six, P.M., when, after taking some tea, she began to vomit;
has since vomited repeatedly a brown watery liquid. She had
severe pain in the stomach and through the head, was taciturn,
fainted before she was put to bed, and had cramps in the abdominal muscles.  The muscular contractions were irregular, and
confined chiefly to the left side of the abdominal parietes. We
first saw her at half-past eleven, P.M., 15th November. She was
lying quietly on her back, but soon began to toss about, kick, and
strike with her arms, and roll her head from side to side, sobbing.
She bent herself forward involuntarily with a scream, and then fell
powerless. The abdominal muscles on the left side were raised
and hard, swelled on that side as in pregnancy; sound, on percussion, hollow. She has had several paroxysms of a similar nature
since six this evening. She says she has no pain except headach
during the paroxysm. Her skin is cold and dry; pulse 92.
Tinct. Camph. every ten minutes.
16th November, noon.-Is better; sitting up dressed.
Six, P.M.-Is up, cheerful, and quite well.
CASE XXVII.
'M. L., a girl, aged 9.-Nine cases of cholera have occurred in the
flat where this patient lives; both her mother and sister had it. We
saw her first at half-past eight, P.M., November 19th. She was
suddenly seized, about an hour ago, with violent pain in the abdomen, and empty retching, chattering of the teeth, coldness of surface;
anxious, uneasy expression of face; restless; voice feeble and moaning; pulse 130; no purging; very great thirst; coldness of breath.
Tinct. of Camph. every five minutes.
Half-past ten, P.M.-After five or six doses she fell asleep. Found
her asleep. Pulse 90; expression improved; respiration natural;
passed urine.
Continue Camph.
20th November, seven, A.M.-She has slept calmly since last visit.
Pulse 100; aspect natural.
Nine, A.M.-Much the same.
Bellad., 3d dil., every two hours.



