
.,.$ )'.147" —1_, —_1                                   4',"u
F,, , `,  T.
: —                                             7..I, --       - 11
"   ' .1


320                      APPENDIX.
mediately afterwards, feeling hungry, took a piece of roasted kidney; felt sick and vomited; took tincture of rhubarb and opium,
which was vomited immediately. First seen at half-past eleven,
P.M. Was vomiting every five or six minutes bloody fluid, twice
with coagula, with severe retching. Was sitting up in bed cold,
ghastly, and pulseless. Great soreness from the middle of the sternum to the epigastrium, increased on pressure; thirst; breathing
much oppressed; suppression of urine.
The sickness was relieved by drinking warm water containing a
little spirit of camphor. During the next half-hour, she vomited
seven times the same bloody-looking fluid; the cramps were less
severe.
Continue Camphor.
17th, ten, A.M.-During the two hours after visit, she vomited four times the same bloody fluid, and since three this morning,
thrice a brownish, yellow fluid; pain in epigastrium gone; slept
a little; bowels open, urinated; is warm; pulse 68; still conmplains of nausea; less thirst; tongue pale and warm.
Continue.
18th, ten, A.M.-Has not vomited nor purged since twelve last
night; feels sick; pulse 88, weak; skin cool.
Continue.
19th.-Was out; the children said their mother was well.
CASE XXXVII.
J. T., aged eleven.-Has been purging and vomiting occasionally
since Sunday last. Become much worse yesterday afternoon, 3d
January. First visited 4th January, four, A.M. Had watery purging and vomiting; skin cold, hands blue, tongue ice-cold; quite
pulseless; looks dejected; great thirst; says he has no pain.
Camphor every ten minutes.
Eleven, A.M.-Two stools; no vomiting; skin and tongue warm;
urinated this morning.
Arsenic, 3d, half-hourly.
Ten, P.M. —Bowels three times moved; urinated freely; skin
warm; pulse 94; sleeping quietly; felt hungry.
Omit medicine.
5th, eleven, A.M. —Slept well through the night; crying for food
this morning.
8th. —Running about quite well.



