
ON EPIDEMICS IN GENERAL.


19


suiuant la saincte parole sans estriuer a l'encontre de luy par
nos desordonees passions comme nous auons fait et faisons
iournellement." *
There is one other curious circumstance connected with
great epidemics to which we must briefly advert before leaving
the general consideration of the subject, and it is the strange
and powerful effect they have or had upon the minds of men.
Scarcely had " the black death" subsided, when a delusion of
the most extraordinary kind began to prevail. It was called
the Dance of St. Vitus, and consisted in the performance of
a succession of dreadful contortions of the body, attended
with screaming and foaming at the mouth.          It spread like
a demoniacal possession over a great part of Europe. Instead
of genuine devotion, the proper effect of a great calamity, we
have its most hideous counterfeit, in an abandoned and most
revolting superstition.   It lasted for many years, and never
since has reappeared as a general epidemic; although it has
frequently prevailed in limited districts of this and other
countries, and even yet it is not altogether extinct, occurring
every now and then in the sporadic form.
How far the cause of such strange phenomena is moral,
and how far purely physical, is an insoluble problem at present. We know that certain natures are very powerfully
impressed by telluric influences,t and we have seen that
* Les (Euvres d'Ambroise Pare, &amp;c., &amp;c., p. 569. Lyons, 1641.
t We may give as an instance the following anecdote of Goethe, told by Eckermann:" Thursday, Nov. 13, 1823.
" Some days ago, as I was walking one fine afternoon towards Erfurt, I wasa
joined by an elderly man, whom I supposed, from his appearance, to be some
respectable citizen. We had not been long together before the conversation
turned upon Goethe. On my asking whether he knew Goethe-' Do I know
him?' said he with vivacity; ' I was his valet almost twenty years!' I begged
to hear something of Goethe's youth, and he gladly consented to gratify me.
" ' When I first lived with him,' said he, 'he was very active in his habits,
thin and elegant in his person. I could easily have carried him in my arms.'



