
294


APPENDIX.


Verat. 3, and Ars. 3.
Medicines repeated at intervals of twenty minutes, hot bricks applied round the body, and arms and legs chafed.
Had three stools, and then an intermission of about three hours.
Skin of the extremities slightly warmer, but temperature of the
mouth unchanged; restless, and complaining of great oppression at
the heart, exclaiming it was bursting, and begging the weight to be
taken off her chest; the cramps gradually diminished in strength and
frequency. The voice varied much, at one time being clear and
distinct, at another hoarse and husky; the blueness of the hands
and face diminished, and the eye increased in clearness; the pain
in the stomach not felt.
Continue Verat. and Ars.
At half-past two, took a tablespoonful of thin gruel, which was retained. At three, a stool, th3 same character; complaining much
of chest and heart oppression. At half-past three, asked for more
gruel, which she drank greedily, and the temperature of the thighs
and surface of the abdomen sensibly increased; no pain on pressure
in the latter; sleeping at times for a few minutes. At a quarter to
four, the respiration became suddenly oppressed and laborious, chest
heaving, and at four she died.
An interval of a few minutes from the respiration ceasing, there
were movements of the right shoulder, it was three or four times
twitched forward; there was no struggle or convulsion, the respiration ceasing gradually. The stools and the water vomited had no
smell.
The house was most wretched, several openings through the roof,
the window stuffed with pieces of cloth, the floor very defective, with
an oppressive smell arising through it. The husband had been
drinking, he went out a little before the wife's death and returned
scarcely able to stand.
CASE IV.
P. M., aged 46, a man of intemperate habits, living in a close
room, with several other persons of both sexes, in a filthy lane off
the Grassmarket, had been in his usual health, and had no diarrhoea
till five o'clock, A.M. of the 20th of October, when he was suddenly
seized with vomiting and purging. When seen for the first time at
ten, A.M3., we found him out of bed, standing almost naked on the



