
226


ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA.


experience goes, we feel at present inclined to trust it more
in cases of violent vomiting and purging, and all the other
prominent phenomena of cholera, but which are destitute of
what we should call the essential physiognomy of the disease.
Such cases will pass for cholera in all reports, Homceopathic
and Allopathic, and they will be cured; but to a practised
eye there is something about them different from fatal cases,
at the very outset. The disease seems to be going inwards,
advancing towards the seat of life; not coming outwards
from it. That they are often fatal, there is no doubt; and
that veratrum cures them, we have no doubt either; but still
veratrum is not sufficient in the worst type of the disease:
and the reason of its great exaltation is, that it cures so
many curable cases very like true cholera. We are by no
means prepared to say that it is not of great service in the
treatment of cholera, but believe that its utility has been
somewhat overrated. We have found it most useful in cases
where there was violent purging and vomiting, without that
sudden deadly collapse which we characterized as the indication for arsenicum. Whether it is advisable to give it
alternately with arsenic, is a difficult question, on which we
feel some hesitation in venturing. We should be rather inclined to stop the arsenic for a while, and give veratrum in
pretty large doses; the 1st, 2d, or 3d dilution; pretty frequently for some little time, and then return to the arsenic.
However, we should be sorry to dogmatize on this matter, for
we are far from having come to a clear principle of guidance
in it. The only vehicle for its administration is water, and
it may be given either in a large or small quantity, according to circumstances. When there was great insensibility
and dryness of the mouth and lips, so that swallowing was
difficult, we have dropped it into the throat by a quill used as
a pipette. Before detailing the symptoms of veratrum as



