
172


ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA.


General Symptoms.-Rapid prostration of strength; stiffness of the muscles; the body suddenly becomes stiff, blue,
and cold; violent cramps of the muscles of voluntary motion;
cramps so painful as to make lthe patient roar out, sometimes
force him out of bed; violent convulsive fits, lasting from
five to ten minutes, with fixed eyeballs, clenching of the jaws
and slight foaming at the mouth; violent starting fits, as
if from fright; several fainting fits in rapid succession.
The spasms are sometimes so violent and general that
the patient looks as if ill of tetanus. We were told by a
physician of high authority in all matters regarding cholera,
that he was once taken to see a lady who was said to have
tetanus. He found her in the state of opisthotonus or emprosthotonus, we forget which, but one of the two, her body
forming a complete arch, and the medical attendants sorely
surprised. From the expression of the countenance he diagnosed cholera, and bled her.   The spasms immediately
subsided, and vomiting and purging, with the other unmistakable symptoms of the disease, set in. She recovered notwithstanding the bleeding. To continue our catalogue:Skin.-Cold and livid; covered with clammy perspiration;
dark-blue; shrivelled; feels like soaked leather.
" The sensation imparted by touching the skin of a person
ill with cholera is very peculiar, and reminds one of that
imparted by a dead body. The skin when much collapsed,
becomes insensible even to the action of chemical agents,
and hence the usual vesicatories fail in producing any effect.
The application of mineral acids and of boiling water, in
this condition of the skin, produces little or no effect, and
some patients are said not to have been sensible of the
operation. The action of mineral acids on the skin is not,
however, vesication, but rather that of a cautery; the
cuticle, and the extremities of the subjacent vessels, appearing to be destroyed by them. It has been said that vesica


