
APPENDIX.


309


of brandy, which he vomited, and the vomiting continued. We
first saw him at nine, A.M. His tongue, skin, and breath were cold;
hands and nose livid; eyes sunk, and surrounded with a dark circle;
expression ghastly; voice husky, speech altered and indistinct;
pulse 140, weak. He was still anxious to go out to make arrangements about the funeral of his daughter.
Arsenic, 3d dil., every quarter of an hour.
Two, P.M.-He was in bed. Severe cramps in the legs and
arms; vomited five times, and purged seven times since last visit,
dejections consisted of a large quantity of colourless fluid, containing
flocculi; pulse 120.
Continue Arsen.
Half-past five, P.M.-Vomited twice and purged once, fluid from
bowels as before; cramps less severe; skin cold and clammy; voice
stronger; pulse very weak, indistinct.
Continue Arsen.
Half-past nine, P.M.-Skin warm and moist; no purging, vomiting, nor cramps; great thirst; pulse 88, full but weak. Took,
about seven, P.M., a cupful of strong tea without milk, and eat a
little bread-vomited neither. Voice much stronger, though his
general appearance continues as before; eyes sunk, half-open;
tongue furred, yellow, rather cold.
Continue Arsen. every half-hour.
5th November, quarter past twelve, A.M.-Bowels not moved;
no vomiting; is restless, cannot fall asleep; pulse 100, weak; features contracted and hands shrivelled.
Continue Arsen.
Half-past nine, A.M.-Bowels moved soon after last visit, open
since every quarter to half-hour, stools watery, of a dirty brick colour,
small in quantity; tenesmus, and ineffectual desire to urinate; craving for food; countenance cadaverous; feet, hands, and genitals
blue, cold, and shrivelled; face and lips cold; tongue furred and
cold; breath warm; pulse about 100, very weak, and scarcely perceptible; less thirst.
Nux vom., 3d dil.
Ten, A.M.-In the same state.
Mer. sol., 3d dil., and Canthar., 3d dil.,
alternately every half-hour.
Eleven, A.M.-He took half a tea-cupful of bread and milk; felt



