
APPENDIX.


303


3d, nine, A.M.-Restless all night from labour pains, but insensible; there was no thirst; no vomiting nor purging. Through the
day the breathing was laborious; eyes turned up, half-open; occasionally roused by pains, which must be very slight; bloody discharge from vagina.  The labour continued the whole night; she
was quite insensible; arms and legs paralytic; the breath was
shockingly foetid, it was necessary to keep the window open.
She died 20 minutes past six, A.M., 4th December. Speechless for
26 hours before death; unable to swallow for 19 hours. The half
of the ]lead was born before she died. The woman in attendance
pulled away the putrid foetus (a female) ten minutes after death.
CASE XV.
Mrs. S., aged 23. Intemperate. Was drowsy the whole day
yesterday and sick after meals. Was thirsty after supper; took
oranges and apples to quench her thirst. Was up till one this morning, 13th December, attending to an eating-house which she opened
a week ago,-a damp, dirty, smoky place. At one, P.M., to-day she
began to vomit and to be cramped in every part of the body; took
some mixture sent by the surgeon at the cholera station, who however has not seen her. Was seen about eleven, A.M., by another
practitioner, who gave her a pill containing a grain of opium, a grain
of calomel, and some grains of capsicum, to be taken after every loose
stool, and brandy ad libitum. When visited at three, P.M., she was
in a state of complete collapse; pulseless; face cold and clammy;
tongue and breath cold; lips and cheeks livid; dark sunken eyelids;
eyeballs exposed; eyes turned up. Slie was also cramped severely
in both legs and in the haunches, and was crying out from pains in
the right hypochondrium. During the visit a discharge of watery
fluid from the bowels took place twice in gushes.
Camphor occasionally. Arsenic, 3d, every quarter of an hour.
Six, P.M. -Was removed from her eating-house home, a distance of
about a quarter of a mile, an hour and a half ago, and placed in a
room without fire. Was ordered to be brought into the kitchen and
placed near the fire; is quite pulseless; ice cold; has had no vomiting, but purged watery liquid thrice.
Continue.
Nine, P.M.-Pulseless; tongue and skin cold; covered with clammy perspiration; eyes turned up; breathing oppressed; less vomit


