
140


ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA.


hurricane raged along the coast from Ongole to Masulipatam.
The shock seemed to come from the north, along the inland
range of hills. During the violent hurricane at Ongole, just
mentioned, large masses of fire were seen to fall upon these
hills, so well known for their influence on the needle, and rain
fell at both places during the time in the greatest abundance.
These hills are chiefly composed of a kind of magnetic ironstone.' The coincidence between these observations and the
following by the editor of the Madras Courier, is very remarkable:-' An earthquake, a phenomenon very unusual,
we might, we believe, say almost unprecedented in this part
of India, occurred on the 16th inst. (June 1819) in various
parts of the Peninsula.' After describing its effects at Combaconum (in the southern part of the Peninsula), he says:
'So little known is such a visitation, that the moonsif quotes
his Hindoo Shasters as foretelling that an earthquake would
some time happen.* We may here mention, as connected
in a manner with the earthquake, that on the same date a
tremendous thunderstorm happened at Masulipatam. The
lightning was terrific, and in the height of the storm the
electric fluid struck a bungalow in which were three gentlemen. It is described as " appearing like a ball of fire, which
burst with the report of a fourteen-inch shell." * * * The epidemic still carries off numbers at the Presidency and its
vicinity. It is stated to be raging with great violence on the
Hoogly among the shipping. No less than three chief officers
of ships in the river died of the disease in one day.' Another such coincidence occurs in the Asiatic Journal for May
1817:-' Madras, Sept. 24, 1816. During the last week, the
neighbourhood of Madras was visited by some severe storms,
which, however, have not had the effect of clearing the sultry
* "The minarets of a mosque at Ahmedabad, which had stood four centuries,
were completely thrown down by this earthquake."



