
ITS MARCH.


43


storms, and consequently sudden changes of the weather,
in the months of September, October, and November. The
commencement of the epidemic cholera was, according to
my personal observation, about the beginning of the month
of October; and I find in my memoranda of cases, that
on the night between the 2d and 3d of November, much
lightning occurred; and it is worthy of remark, that exactlyat this time, our first five fatal cases were drawn up and reported to the Board of Health at London. Upon the 2d of
November, we had no new cases; nor upon the 3d, 4th, and
5th; but upon the 6th, we reported six new cases, and two
deaths; and upon the night between the 6th and the 7tlh, we
had continued flashes of lightning during the whole night
-an unusual phenomenon at this season of the year."*
" Unnatural times do breed unnatural troubles."
Dr. MUiller, speaking of St. Petersburg during the present epidemic, observes:t-" The air, during the whole time
of the presence of the cholera here, was oppressive, heavy,
and very changeful in its degrees of temperature. There
were frequent thunderstorms, but they had no influence in
making people ill or restoring them to health. [A bold assertion!]  Rain fell almost daily.  The sky was gloomy-very
misty in the evening; the sun seldom broke through.    The
depressing influence, (die muthlose Stimmung,) the peculiar
constitution of the atmosphere acted, more or less, upon every
one; almost without exception, all experienced a certain
* Hyperanthraxis, or the Cholera of Sunderland, by W. Reid Clanny, M.D.,
F.R.S.E., M.R.S.A., Physician to H. R. H. the Duke of Sussex, &amp;c. &amp;c. We give
some of his titles to show that he is a man of learning and standing; for at
first sight it seems odd to invent a special Greek name for the " Cholera of
Sunderland." It would be a curious Babel-language, if every town where the
cholera appeared returned a Greek member of the medical parlcelent (to adopt
the old spelling).
t Op. Cit., p. 5.



