
APPENDIX.


295


floor; he said he had risen on account of the violence of the cramps.
The surface of the body was quite cold, the tongue cold, the pulse
could not be felt, the toes were quite turned in by the cramps, and
he complained much of the violent pain in his legs. He was vomiting and purging a watery fluid.
He died at a quarter before ten, P.M., seventeen hours after seizure,
and twelve hours after first visit.
CASE V.
R. A., aged 22, a man of sober, industrious habits, living in a
comfortable room, without feeling unwell, took a dose of salts and
senna as a precautionary measure, on the morning of the 22d of
October, which operated in the course of the day. At four, P.M., he
was seized with vomiting, purging, and cramps. When seen at
half-past seven, P.M., the surface of the body was cold and darkblue in colour; the pulse was felt like the finest thread; the jaw
was hanging, and the eyes open, glassy, and turned up; the tongue
and breath were icy cold; the voice a hollow whisper; there was
great thirst, watery vomiting and purging, and violent cramps in
legs and arms.
He died at half-past one, A.M., of the following morning, nine hours
and a half after seizure, and six hours after first visit.
CASE VI.
R. A., aged 30, a man of intemperate habits, who had been drinking whisky the previous day, but otherwise in his usual health.
He was seized with vomiting and purging and cramps about midnight of the 24th of October, and when seen at five o'clock the next
morning, he was found standing on the floor roaring with pain. His
face was pale and anxious; his lips and breath were quite cold; no
pulse could be felt, and he could not move from where he stood from
the violence of the cramps. Alvine evacuations watery, what he
vomited was tinged with blood.
Camphor to smell, and afterwards Arsenicum, 3rd dil.,
frequently repeated.
Half-past eight, A.M.-Profuse warm perspiration over the whole
body; no vomiting or purging; slight cramps; urine suppressed;
great thirst; pulse barely perceptible.
Eleven, A. M.-Countenance cadaverous; very breathless; moan


