
APPENDIX.


It was one of our earliest cases, and being seen by all of us very
frequently, there was not so accurate a report kept by any one of
us as we could desire. It was looked upon as quite hopeless.
CASE LXXV.
Mrs. L., aged 3.5, seized with vomiting, and purging, and cramps
in the arms and legs, at four o'clock, P.M., of 10th October; seen
at six, P.M. She had violent convulsive fits, lasting from five to ten
minutes, with fixed eyeballs, clenching of the jaws, and slight foaming at the mouth. Her pulse was irregular, varying every few
minutes from 104 to 68 beats per minute. Abdomen exceedingly
tender.
Aeon. and Nux Vom., alternately every quarter of an hour.
Nine, same evening.-No convulsions or cramps; abdomen still
tender; only one stool; no vomiting; pulse 100, weak, regular.
Continued to improve until the 12th, when she seemed convalescent.
On the night of the 12th she went about the house, and ate potatoes.
At twelve, P.M., was seized with violent cramps in the limbs and
pain in the abdomen. She was seen at half-past one, A.M., and
found cold, and purging and vomiting.
Got Nux Vom., and Verat., and fell asleep.
When seen at five, A.M., she was in a state of perfect collapse,
and not expected to live above a few hours.
She was ordered Arsen.
On the 14th, at four, A.M., the upper part of the body was quite
cold; there was no purging and little vomiting; no pulse; and
hiccough.
Secale and Verat. alternately.
At ten, A.M., same day, the pulse was just perceptible; tongue
and breath not quite so cold. She was seen from this time by one
of the medical officers every three or four hours for several succeeding days, and got chiefly
Arsenicum and Veratrum.
The symptoms gradually abated, but for several days the weakness was so great that she was not expected to recover. She gradually got better, and when seen on the 23d of November was quite
well. She passed through the true typhoid stage.
z
EDINIU'n/GH: T. CONSTABLE., &gt;RINTE'B  TO HER MlAJEbTV.
UNIV. Olp 'i!Ct4      A.


1 1912



