
290


APPENDIX.


we have no doubt that on the whole the reports are more faithful
than the ordinary history of cases, except those which occur in hospitals, where accuracy is much more easily attained.
In making out our returns of cholera cases we have used our
best endeavour to enter none as cholera which did not present the
most unequivocal symptoms of the complaint. We need hardly
observe that there is considerable liability to error in this matter;
and we may have entered as cholera, cases which others would not
have looked upon as presenting sufficiently characteristic symptoms
of the complaint. Before we made up our final list from which the
mortality is taken, we did all we could to purge our book of all
dubious cases, and reduced the number from 365 to 236.
We have arranged the cases in the following order:-First,
Those which were fatal in the second and third stage of the disease.
Second, Those which rallied from the state of true cholera and
afterwards sunk in the typhoid state. Third, Cases of recovery
from the first invasion of the disease. Fourth, Recovery after it
had been fully formed. And Fifth, Recovery from the typhoid
state.
'FATAL CASES.
CASE I.
The first case of cholera, which was treated homceopathically
towards the end of the attack, was that of A. M., an Irish married
woman, who came from Glasgow three days before, (the 5th of
October,) to take refuge in the house of her sister, living in the
second floor of a crowded, filthy locality in the West Port. She was
shocked to find that her sister had died the same day of cholera,
and the husband of the defunct died of it two days afterwards, and
was lying unburied in an adjoining dark, small room. Our patient's
age was 25, she was of fair complexion, small stature, slender, delicate, and exhausted by nursing her child eighteen months old, and
by want of food for the last three or four days, her husband having
been out of work for some weeks. She was taken ill at about four
o'clock on Sunday morning (the 8th of October) with purging and
vomiting, got rapidly weak, could not stand nor sit up from vertigo
and noise in the ears; took whisky repeatedly and vomited it; was
very thirsty, took beer, water, and vomited everything she drank;



