
ITS TREATMENT.


201


cians, and 15 per cent. to the remedy which we suppose was
given without any medical attendant, but which is Homceopathic to the first stage of the disease. The facts we here
state rest on as good authority as any historical statements
can; and if any one contemptuously rejects them, he must
be prepared to give up all faith in history.
We now come to our own results in Edinburgh; and we
may observe at the outset, that the trustworthiness of these
results rests solely upon our own authority and that of our
colleagues, one of whom, Dr. Sutherland, formerly of the
H.E.I.C.S., was quite familiar with the disease, having had
to treat it frequently in India. We cannot produce any
official testimonial, for, as will be more particularly stated
afterwards, we reported our cases, by the advice of Dr.
Sutherland of the Board of Health, direct to London, to
avoid the impertinent interference with our patients by those
who came under the guise of inspectors, and made observations, and even used threats to induce persons whom we were
treating to give up the Homceopathic medicine. We repeat,
therefore, that if our authority for the statements we are
about to make be not sufficient, we must be content with the
ample evidence already adduced.
Hitherto we have left out of consideration altogether, in
comparing the results of the two systems, the length of time
required by each to effect a cure. We have no accurate data
by which to ascertain the average duration of Allopathic
treatment. Muller says, (p. 28,) " A cure was seldom effected
rapidly in a few days; this happened in about one-eighth of
the patients, and then it was confined to the slight cases,*
* This proves that there were slight cases treated in the general Allopathic
hospitals, asrwell as in the Homceopathic. Is it not strange that the reviewer
we before alluded to should have reserved the word "choleroid" exclusively
for the Homceopathic hospital cases, although in the original, the term applied
to both is precisely the same?



