
316


APPENDIX.


legs and toes; was in bed, roaring furiously from pain in the stomach,
and vomiting a large quantity of whitish liquid, with painful retchings. After the vomiting had ceased, the pain in the stomach became
excruciating, followed by the same train of symptoms; pulse slow
and faint; skin cold and clammy; hands and feet cramped. Camph.
every now and then was given. After an interval of a quarter of
an hour she vomited the white characteristic cholera liquid once more,
then became cheerful, wiped her face, and exclaimed, " Now, I am
better;" was very thirsty. Camph. now and then till quite warm.
Seen at nine, P.M.; was better, except occasionally cramped in the
tougue and eyelids. Visited next day; quite well.
CASE XXX.
R. G., aged 53.-A miserable house, lying on a shake-down in a
corner without covering. Intemperate; drinking on Sunday. Was
attacked in his own house at half-past ten, P.M., of the 27th November. Seen first 28th November, seven, P.M. Has been purging
frequently thin whitish liquid, involuntarily; has vomited two or
three times, frequent dry retching; cramps in knees, thighs, and
calves of the legs; great and incessant thirst; heart's action regular but vo.y weak; pulse 70, small and weak; general coldness;
tongue cold; voice tolerably good; no urine for 24 hours.
Camphor every ten minutes.
Ten, P.M.-No vomiting nor purging.
Continue.
29th, ten, A.M.-Slept well; no vomiting nor purging; urinated
a little last night; thirst continues.
Continue.
Twelve, P.M.-Purged twice through the day; faeces yellow;
urinating freely; still thirsty; complains of hunger.
30th.-Purging ceased; feels well.
CASE XXXI.
J. H., aged 64.-An occasional drinker. In delicate health
has had bowel complaint for a week past, it stopped suddenly yesterday, but recommenced in the forenoon; began to vomit about
three, P.M., of the 1st of December. First seen 2d December, one,
A M.; urinated two or three minutes ago; purging, stools like rice
water, very foetid; cramps in toes; great thirst; face inclined to
be cold; tongue coldish, furred; pulse 106, weak.



