
APPENDIX.


315


Nine, P.M.-Sleeping; no stool; urinated.
21st November, nine, A.M.-Slept well, looks better, and seems
quite well.
22d November.-Continuing well.
CASE XXVIII.
C. P., a woman, aged 27.-Her father has been ill of cholera,
and she has attended him for the last two days; during this time she
has taken scarcely any food, and has had no rest. While sitting at
the fireside last night, about ten o'clock, she fainted and was put to
bed. She felt cold, and had some brandy and water; after this she
shook, and her teeth chattered. Vomiting began about eleven, P.M.
She had cramps, severe pain in the epigastrium, and pains over the
whole body, which made her cry out and be restless.  She was first
seen at half-past two, A.M., November 21st. She was roaring from
cramps all over the body, which made her retch; eyes wide open,
expression restless; complained of coldness in her bowels; face, lips,
and hands cold and pale; tongue warm; pulse 104, unsteady.
Tinct. Camph. every quarter of an hour.
Nine, A.M.-Fell asleep after taking medicine; slept till eight,
A.M. Pulse 100; no vomiting or purging; great general pain; no
urine passed.
Four, P.M.-Found in a deep sleep; pulse 96, hard; perspiration,
warm on the chest, cold on the forehead; no urine passed.
Continue Camph.
22d November, nine, A.M.-Was up, sitting by the fire; complains of general uneasiness; pulse quick.
Nux vom., 3d dil., every two hours.
23d November, nine, A.M.-Sitting up; complains much of giddiness; perspired freely through the night; bowels costive; pulse 62.
Continue Camph. occasionally.
One, P.M.-Doing well; urine and bowels natural.
25th November, three, P.M.-Continuing quite well.
CASE XXIX.
A woman, aged 48.-Had diarrhoea three weeks ago for eleven
days, but has been in good health since. Took dinner at two, P.M.,
after which her bowels were moved once, and she was directly afterwards seized with vomiting, first watery fluid, and then her dinner.
Seen first at four, P.M., October 24, when she was cramped in the



