
300


APPENDIX.


said she could not lie in bed owing to the pain in the bowels. She
had been vomiting and purging for an hour. The skin was hot;
the pulse rapid and full; the tongue cool. Complained of great
thirst; passed urine in the evening. Face flushed; has drunk some
whisky. The stools are thin and bilious.
Camphor, to be followed by Mere., solub. 3d.
19th, half-past eleven, P.M.-Vomiting and purging continue;
surface of the body becoming cold.
Veratrum, 3d dil., every quarter of an hour.
20th, half-past one, A.M.-Surface cold; face and hands livid;
purging clear watery fluid, with white flocculi; grinding of the
teeth; pulse scarcely perceptible.
Veratr., 3d, and Arsen., 3d dil., alternately.
Half-past six, A.M.-Vomited and purged once since last visit.
Skin cold; eyes turned up. Complains of pain in chest; respiration
30 in a minute. Some attacks of hiccough, and spasmodic catching
of the breath; she rubs tie chest with her hands. There are no
cramps; the tongue, lips, and breath are very cold.
Cicuta Viros., 3d dil., and Arsen., 3d dil.,
alternately every quarter of an hour.
Nine, A.M.-Looks and feels better. No return of hiccough or
catching of breath. Tongue cold; pulse perceptible; one watery
stool. Continue medicine.
November 20th, one, P.M.-Pulse gone; skin and breath cold; a
clammy sweat on the face; countenance very much altered, very
dark-grey; voice indistinct; great thirst.
Veratr., 3d., and Arsen., 3d, alternately.
Eight, P.M.-There was great oppression of breathing at times, and
she tossed about much. No pulse could be felt; the skin was warnm
and dry; there was no urine. She has purged three times; no
vomiting; the eyes are turned up.
Continue Veratr. and Arsen.
21st, half-past two, A.M.-We found her lying very quietly; and
on being asked how she was, she said she was tired. There was less
thirst, and there had been only two scanty watery stools, and no
vomiting. She was restless; the pulse could not be felt. There
was grinding of the teeth, and twitching of the facial muscles; also
slight quick spasmodic action of some fibres of the muscles of the calf
of the leg. Continue medicine.



