
292


APPENDIX.


watery, scalding discharge came from her bowels almost each time
she vomited, and that she could not make water.
Ars. 3, every quarter of an hour.
She had no cramps for about half an hour, was also warm and
perspired profusely under the blankets; the perspiration on the
trunk was warm, and on the face and extremities cold; pulse perceptible, 140 in a minute, weak; the livid hue was gone; the lips,
tongue, and fingers became whitish, pale, ensanguined, and warm,
her voice firmer, louder, and clearer; her breathing easy, 28 times
in a minute; but she was still very thirsty.  On the whole the case
had an appearance of being likely to terminate favourably; even
when the Police Surgeon inquired, (about half-past two o'clock,) the
pulse was then ranging between 120 and 140, and she had no cramps
nor vomiting nor purging for nearly two hours; but this favourable
state was short-lived, slight cramps recurred a little before four
o'clock, they were chiefly in the thorax, with oppression in breathing,
and the pulse began to falter.
Cuprum 3, dry on the tongue.
At her own request she got a little gruel, which she vomited;
became more thirsty and very restless; very anxious to get up,
flung about her arms from breathlessness, which gruadually became
more and more oppressive, and made her cry repeatedly, "I am
dying!" the pulse became again completely extinct; at half-past
four, P.mi., respirations from 32 to 38 in a minute, sonorous, laborious, with sighing, gasping, and an exclamation, " I cannot have ease
in this world!" The face, lips, and the whole body got cold like
ice again; hands and legs paralytic; she became restless, speechless,
and could not swallow anything after some brandy and water was
given to her; lying insensible; the fingers crooked, their integuments
shrivelled, corrugated; the nails dark blue, and the breathing, interrupted by gasping or risus sardonicus, followed by a few futile
gasps for breath, which were the last of her poor exhausted life.
After death, which took place a little before five o'clock, P.M., that
is, after thirteen hours' illness, the whole body became warm again,
and a few post-mortem contractions took place before it cooled.
CASE II.
M. S., a woman aged 30, living in a miserable, filthy, crowded
room, a notorious drunkard, who had been drunk the previous day



