
348


APPENDIX.


Veratrum, 3d, and Arsenicum, 3d, alternately every half-hour.
Ten, P.M.-Pulse 78, weak; no purging; vomiting of green
water continues; she is nursing, and her milk, which had disappeared, has returned; tongue furred, cool; great thirst; slept a
little this afternoon; face natural in temperature and colour.
Continue Arsenic.
5th, eleven, A.M.-Slept well; urinated at five, A.M.; bowels
once moved; stool reported yellow; pulse 72; less thirst; warm;
feels hungry.
8th. —Up, and feels better, though weak and giddy occasionally.
CASE LXIX.
D. S., aged 5.-This boy's mother died of cholera last week, in
Glasgow; he, his brothers, and sisters, were brought here by his
grandmother on Thursday last. A man in this house took cholera
on that day, was removed to the hospital, and died. An old man
also died on Saturday of cholera, and his body is at present lying
in the house. This child has been purging since Friday. Last
night, 6th January, about eight, P.M., the purging became very
severe; milk, water, and wine, which were given him, passed undigested.  First seen 7th January, five, P.M.  Stools frequent,
watery; vomiting everything taken, and large quantities of watery
fluid; complains of pain in epigastrium; urine reported to be very
scanty; skin and tongue cold; face cold, dark-coloured; eyes
deeply sunk; expression anxious; moaning; pulse about 120, weak,
at times scarcely perceptible; very great thirst. Has been warmer
since taking some brandy two hours ago.
Arsenic, 3, every half-hour.
8th, eleven, A.M.-Pulse 110; bowels four times moved since
visit; stools (last one) dark, faeculent; urinated this morning; vomited twice; less thirst; voice clearer; skin tolerably warm; tongue
warmer.
Continue.
9th, eleven, A.M.-Was hungry last night, and had some gruel
without producing sickness; slept well; wishes to rise this morning; pulse 80, natural; temperature of skin natural; tongue clean;
urinating freely; bowels twice moved; stools brown, liquid; no
thirst.
12th.-Sitting up; quite well; appetite good.



