
40


ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA.


impelled? To this we shall not venture any answer, but
throw out the few suggestions which have occurred to us in
the course of our reading and meditation upon the subject.
There is something very dreadful in the idea of an infected
atmosphere. Against poison in other forms we can guard.
We can analyze our food, and even for a time abstain from
eating. But we must breathe or die; and it is a frightful
alternative to know that if we do breathe, we must also die.
Yet so it is. The viewless, scentless, impalpable air, the
breath of life, is sometimes charged with a poison so powerful that no organism can withstand its baneful influence, and
yet so subtle that no chemistry can detect its presence. No
wonder that when this is known to be the case, a most
anxious investigation of all atmospheric phenomena should
be made, and everything which was supposed to be unusual
about these, should be associated with the taint which affected the air. As yet we might report upon this department of the subject in the words of Lord Bacon: —" Spe
fallente, progressu haud prospero, fructu parco et exiguo,
cum contemnendo aut plane nullo successu."
This much is certain, that there must be " something in
the air" when the cholera rages. It is in the air, for it affects
the aerial inhabitants. When the cholera came to Petersburg, the crows forsook their old roosting-places, and the
swallows their nests, and disappeared altogether during the
time it was there.*    Yet it was not of the air, for it has
been observed not to be affected by wind; and indeed in
* Einige Bemerkungen fiber die Asiatische Cholera, fuir ~Erzte, nach eigener
Erfahrung gesammelt auf einer zur Beobachtung des Uibels unternommenen
Reise, von C. Muller, Dr. Med. Hannover, September 1848. Also, Observations
on the Asiatic Cholera, by Adair Crawford, Esq., M.D., Metropolitan Sanitary
Commission. As we shall have occasion to refer to these pamphlets again, we
may here observe, that Dr. Muller was sent by the Hanoverian, and Dr. Crawford by our own Government, to investigate the cholera in Petersburg, and
these are their "Reports."



