
20


INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER.


great epidemics were naturally preceded or attended by disturbances both of the earth and the sky. We may observe,
in passing, that the Egyptian magicians who withstood
Moses, were evidently believers in their own power to effect
all he did. Egypt is still the land of magic; and to this day
the traveller sees many strange sights which he can neither
explain nor discredit. If some of these find their explanation in mesmeric phenomena, we may well believe that the
subject of this mysterious influence is always strongly acted
upon by the powers of the air.
I asked whether Goethe, in that early part of his life here, was disposed to
gaiety. 'Certainly,' he replied, 'always gay with the gay, but never when
they passed a certain limit; in that case, he became grave. Always working
and seeking; his mind always bent on art and science; that was the way with
my master. The Duke often visited him in the evening; and staid so late, conversing on literary topics, that I would get extremely tired, and long to have
the Duke go away. One time he rang for me in the middle of the night. When
I came up, I found he had rolled his iron trundle-bed to the window, and was
lying there looking out upon the heavens. ' Have you seen nothing remarkable in the heavens?' asked he; and when I answered in the negative, bid me
run to ask the same question of the watchman. He said he had not seen anything remarkable. When I returned with this answer to my master, I found
him in the same position in which I had left him-lying in his bed, and gazing
upon the sky. ' Listen,' said he to me, ' this is an important moment; there is
now an earthquake, or one is just going to take place;' then he made me sit
down on the bed, and showed me by what signs hlie knew this.
"I asked the good old man what sort of weather it was.
"' A cloudy night,' he replied, ' no air stirring; very still and sultry.' I asked
if he believed there was an earthquake merely on Goethe's word?
" ' Yes,' said he, * I believed it, for I always found things happened as he said
they would. Next day, while he was relating his observations at Court, a lady
whispered to her neighbour, ' What visions are these of Goethe's?' But the
Duke, and all the men present believed Goethe; and the correctness of his observations was confirmed in a few weeks, by the news that a part of Messina
was on that night ruined by an earthquake."-Eckermann's " Conversations
with Goethe in the Last Years of his Life." Translated by S. M. Fuller. Pp
64-66. Boston, 1839.



