
APPENDIX.


301


Nine, A.M.-She was much easier. No vomiting; the purging
was more fmculent, and the pulse perceptible. Continue medicine.
Seven, A.M.-She was much worse. Since six o'clock the breathing had become oppressed. Constant desire to go to stool without
any relief; there was no pulse; the tongue was clammy and cold;
the hands and face were discoloured; there was no vomiting, but she
complained of pain in the chest. Continue medicine.
Nine, P.M.-Restless, but feels better; voice stronger; no pulse;
her face had a wild expression. Continue Arsen. and Verat. She
complains of breathlessness.
Half-past eleven, P.M. —The pulse was perceptible; she complained much of shortness of breath; the blood-vessels on the inferior
half of the eyeball of both eyes were injected with blood; there was
no vomiting or purging. She died early the following morning.
CASE XIV.
C. S., a woman, aged 25.  Between the 8th and 9th month of
pregnancy. Living in the same house with her sister, who dressed
the body of a patient who died of cholera. She was seized with
severe bowel complaint on Saturday night; the purging which continued has begun to diminish. Vomiting began 27th November,
seven, A.M. First seen, three, P.M. Vomiting occurs about every
quarter of an hour, ejections green; has not urinated for two days,
to-day passed a little; severe pains in the stomach and back; feels
sick on raising her head; pulse 60; skin warm.
Arsenic, 3d, every half-hour.
Half-past nine, P.M.-Purged once and vomited twice since visit;
pulse 126, weak; countenance dejected; evacuations bilious.
Camphor every quarter of an hour.
28th, eight, A.M.-Pulse 98; vomited once; purged three or four
times, stools brown flocculent; tongue and skin warm; pain in urinating, urine scanty.
Mercurius, 3d, every hour.
Noon.-Vomiting and purging almost ceased; feels much better.
Continue.
Nine, P.M.-Retching; desire to vomit; bowels moved four times
to-day, with griping, stools thin, yellow; pulse 92.
Continue.
29th, ten, A.M.-Slept from twelve to five this morning; urinated;



