
so


INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER.


much more obvious, if the event be foretold with a minuteness of detail far beyond the powers of science to attempt, and
its moral purpose be at the same time expressly announced.
Without such announcement it may be unintelligible. Had
Moses not spoken to Pharaoh, and proclaimed beforehand the
definite object to be served by the terrible catastrophes which
were so soon to follow, the tyrant, though terrified-" for
conscience doth make cowards of us all"-might have been
as much at a loss to account for the dreadful scenes he witnessed as we may suppose the Pope to have been when he
saw a pillar of fire resting over his palace at Avignon.
We make these observations on the assumption that the
succession of terrific phenomena rising step by step to the
climax of the destruction of the people of Egypt, by means
of which the children of Israel were set free, are capable of
explanation by natural laws, and therefore, besides conveying, as they always must to the devout mind, one of the
most emphatic moral lessons on record, may also be a proper
object of scientific reference.
In the observations on the plagues of Egypt which we are
about to make, we have taken Hengstenberg* for our guide;
eternal power and Godhead." (Rom. i. 20.) Yet from the very circumstance
that nature is thus speaking unto all-that this speaking is diffused over all
time, addressed unto all men-from the very vastness and universality of this
language it may miss its aim. It cannot be said to stand in nearer relation to
one man than to another-to confirm one man's word more than that of others
-to address one man's conscience more than that of every other man. However
it may sometimes have, it must often lack a peculiar and personal significance.
But in the miracle wrought in the sight of some certain men, and claiming their
special attention, there is a speaking to them in particular. There is then a
voice in nature which addresses itself directly to them-a singling them out
from the crowd. It is plain that God has now a peculiar word, which they are to
give heed to-a message to which he is bidding them listen.-Notes on the Miracles of our Lord. By Richard Chevenix Trench, M.A., Professor of Divinity,
King's College, London, &amp;c. &amp;c. p. 11.
* Egypt and the Books of Moses. By Dr. E. W. Hengstenberg, Professor of
Theology at Berlin. Translated by R. D. C. Robins. American edition.



