
5i2


ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA.


eased persons disturbing the circulation, the nervous functions, and the equilibrium of the mental powers."*
Let it not be supposed that we wish to identify the morbific force which produces cholera with electricity or magnetism in any of its forms. Our only design is to direct attention to the remarkable fact that there is constantly in
the atmosphere a subtle force moving in a given direction,
which has the power of affecting with severe illness persons
peculiarly susceptible to its influence, and that thus it offers
a closer analogy than any other constant natural force with
the peculiar morbific influence we are now considering.
Before leaving this'part of the subject altogether, we are
tempted to add one observation. It has been remarked by
various writers that the electric force in all its various modifications is the great antagonist to the force of attraction.
The one is, to borrow a phrase from political life, the conservative and the other the radical power. Attraction holds
things together, binds the planets to their suns; the electric
force gives life and activity to the materials of which all
matter consists. Neither vital nor chemical action can go
on without it. The course of the earth, in obedience to the
general law of gravitation, is from west to east, the course of
epidemics is from east to west.
Again, we disclaim any intention of building a hypothesis,
but we throw out these random hints in the hope of stimulating the curiosity of observers, and inducing them to direct
their investigations in the direction where we have most hopes
of discovering the laws by which the mother earth, with its
mantle of air, " its glorious canopy of light and blue," is so
intimately united with all that dwell upon its surface.
* Abstract of "Researches on Magnetism and on Certain Allied Subjects,"
including a Supposed New Imponderable. By Baron von Reichenbach. Translated by William Gregory, M.D., Professor of Chemistry in the University of
Edinburgh.



