
'-     _     -,  i__   i, -  z~ e;   '_  - -:  --
O'!k":' _0 -  0  0.-.     1r-.....  i '


APPENDIX.


325


Continue Arsen.
Five, P.M.-Stools dark-red, with a faeculent smell; complains
much of thirst and pain in the abdomen.
Merc. cor., 2d dil., half-hourly.
Nine, P.M.-Pulse 90; great pain in abdomen. Being a lodger
merely, and not comfortably attended to, at the request of her
friends she was sent to the Infirmary.
CASE XILV.
Mrs. M'D., aged 28, married nine years, has no family, of
haemorrhagic diathesis. She has been weakened by too frequent
and too copious catamenia. At the end of the last catamenial period,
three days ago, diarrhoea came on, which continues. She began to
vomit this morning, and continued to do so till six, P.M., when
uterine hemorrhage commenced; she got very weak and took brandy
at seven, P.M., which was instantly vomited. We saw her first on
28th October, at half-past eight, P.M., she was sitting in bed, melancholy and afraid of instant death; pulse 128, small; skin excessively cold, with cold perspiration on nose and forehead. Complains
of being very sick; cold, particularly in the bowels, and thirsty;
urine suppressed since last night; feels very weak, and says she
cannot breathe when lying, and cramps come on in legs. She is
sallow and ghastly in appearance.
Secale, 1st dil., every few minutes,
to be followed in half an hour by Verat., 3d dil.,
every quarter of an hour.
Twelve, P.M.-She has had only one attack of vomiting, along
with purging without cramps.
To have her feet in warm bath. Continue Verat.
29th, eight, A.M.-Much better; no vomiting or purging since
midnight; felt sick at four, A.M., and took a few doses of medicine;
afterwards fell asleep and perspired freely; pulse, when lying, 92;
is irresistibly thirsty.
Secale every half-hour.
Twelve, noon.-Better; no vomiting or purging.
Nine, P.M. —Has perspired almost the whole day; skin warm;
pulse 80, firm and full; no purging or vomiting; had some slight
cramps in the legs twice since last visit.
Continue.



