
fever in the cure of which bark was effectual-before all other remedies. These, then, were Hahnemann's reflections: How! then the
bark actually possesses the property of producing an intermittent febrile condition, and for that very reason to cure, and preferably indeed,
such intermittentfevers as are similar to those which it can of itself produce.
Upon this subject experience alone could decide, and for its elucidation a series of experiments were instituted; when behold! experiments both on himself and on other healthy persons taught Hahnemann
incontestably, that bark effected peculiar changes in the animal economy of man in health; and when he collected, from the cases of different
persons, all the symptoms which he had cured with this remedy, he
perceived further, that in all the cases wherein the patients had been
really cured with the bark, such patient had had symptoms highly similar to those artificially produced by the same agent. In this manner
did he determine, the first, among the thousands of physicians who had
given the bark as a specific against every intermittent fever, among the
thousands who had prescribed it, sometimes to the injury, sometimes
to the benefit of the patient-the only one who determined closely and
definitely the cases in which bark was really salutary. To quote for
example, some of the principal of them. In cases adapted for the use
of bark, it is requisite that the attack should be ushered in with some
accessary symptoms, so that before the commencement of the chill,
palpitations of the heart, great anxiety or nausea, great thirst, canine
appetite, or pressing head-ache takes place; that there be no thirst
either during the chill or the heat, or at most between the two, or during the sweating stage; that there be considerable determination of
blood to the head during the fever, with distension of the superficial
veins; or heat of the face in the chill with coldness of other parts;
that the bowels be loose, the sleep by night restless, interrupted by
anxious and frightful dreams, with stupidity or long continued anxiety
after waking, and the like. But those cases particularly are adapted
wherein all the morbid symptms which occur during the apyrexia,
closely correspond with those produced by bark. This example nay
serve in some measure, at the same time, to show the closeness and accuracy, with which Hahnemann noted the symptoms in every case of
fever.
After making these experiments with bark, Hahnemann prosecuted
still further his enquiries into the same law of cure, whether it would
be confirmed also with respect to other remedies. The next subject
which offered itself for consideration, was the effect of mercury. The
specific virtue of this remedy against syphilis had already long been
known. It was clear that the mercurial disease, that it is to say, that
change of the organization which is produced by mercury, in many of
its symptoms manifested great similarity with syphilis. Sulphur, too,
the well known specific against the Itch, every one knows, is capable
of producing an eruption similar to that of the itch. Just as strikingly was the same law corroborated in the case of narcotic plants.
These had long been recognised as the principal remedies in mental
diseases, and it is incontestably shown in the histories of poisons, that
they produce of themselves mental alienation. Another confirmation
is extant in the vaccine. It is evident to every one, at first glance,


