
10

globe, upon one side of which he delineated this division of the earth,
and upon the other a large country, its antipodes. Yet none had actually visited the western continent, and so doubtful was its existence,
that Columbus was obliged to undergo ten years of anxious endeavour,
before he received the little vessels for his expedition. Thus also was
Hahnemann the first who prosecuted those speculations, the first
who explored the great path, and bestowed upon that law of cure
more than ten years of painstaking investigation.
Experience however, alone could decide concerning it-pure, certain and enlarged experience. And in order to realize this experience,
much more knowledge was to be acquired of remedies than hitherto, viz.,
what they were capable of effecting upon man in a state of health, and
what morbid phenomena they were able to excite. Here Hahnemann
had a field of infinite extent before him, which could only be cultivated
through the most patient and laborious investigations. Every step cost
great sacrifices,and years wererequisiteto make even a small beginning.
Before him, nothing at all had been attempted in this way. The
German physician Stoerk, had, it is true, contrived similar experiments with some drastic plants, but his observations were too general, and he described what he had observed of their effects in expressions not sufficiently definite. The experiments of W. Alexander, of
Scotland, valuable as they might otherwise be, were liable to the same
objections.
The great Haller had once declared, that to be able to judge of the
effects of different plants, experiments ought to be made with them
upon persons in health-the result of which might then be assumed as
the foundation of something stable and certain for directing their employment in disease. But none had yet carried this precept into practice. The enunciation was suppressed, and the glorious type was
forgotten.
Hahnemann was the first who actually undertook these important
investigations, and conducted them too with great precision, under the
conviction that more certainty must thereby be communicated to medicine. Desirous of the co-operation of other physicians, in the prosecution of his enquiries, nay if possible the general co-operation, in
1796, he wrote his treatise: " Concerning a new principle for discovering the curative virtues of medicine," and in a tone entirely peaceable, announced therein the views which he had formed during six years
of patient investigation. Sneering animadversions were the only reply lie received, but in general little attention was paid to it.HIahnemann was obliged, therefore, to tread the path alone. With
praiseworthy zeal and perseverance, he collected from the writings
of physicians, both ancient and modern, whatever served to assist him,
and whatever they had promulgated respecting the positive effects of
remedies. But here his investigations were necessarily, and almost
exclusively confined to the narratives of cases of accidental poisoning
by medicinal substances. For, whenever a physician described the
effects of any medicine, he had commonly not administered it alone,
but in combination with others, and such experiments were therefore


