
16

which theorists had been accumulating for two thousand years must
fall to the ground. The multiplicity of theories and systems, and the
many hypothesis according to which it was so convenient to write
recipes, would be prostrated; physicians must again become students,
and that they were unwilling to do. Truly, we could not contemplate
the treatment which Hahnemann,the great benefactor of his race, has
received, without the greatest indignation, were we not reminded by
history; that such has been the destiny of all the great discoverers of
new truths. Did we not know that it has thus happened to Copernicus and Galileo, to Columbus himself, and Harvey, the great discoverer of the circulation.
Amid the greatest opposition, however, a small band of faithful followers assembled around Hahnemann, who aided his enquiries by their
experiments with medicines on their own persons. A few years after
the appearance of the Organon, he began to publish his Materia
Medica, in which all the morbid symptoms of the most important medicines were cited, symptoms which had been ascertained by experiments on the healthy subject. Thus was this great man, supported
in a measure only by those few disciples, obliged to proceed in his
immensely painstaking labour, yet ten years after the appearance of
the Organon. Slowly in the meantime, had the number of his disciples increased, which though small, was yet strong through conviction, strong by the power of the truth which they had acknowledged.
At this time, (1821) a new period dawns upon us.
In consequence of the united intrigues of the apothecaries and physicians in Leipzig, Hahnemann was now obliged to leave that city,
wherein he had for the space of thirty years, been elaborating his
new art, where he had practised it successfully, and where he had
publicly taught, and gained his disciples. The laws which prohibit
the dispensing of medicines by physicians, under a heavy penalty, and
permit it only to the privileged apothecaries, were brought to bear
against him. Hahnemann who always gave the simple medicine, in
-his entirely novel preparations, in which an extraordinarycare and accuracy were indispensable, could not possibly commit this labor, upon
which the certainty of the result, and the welfare of his patients depended, to the apothecaries; who, not at all familiar in such unheard
of niceties, regarded the whole business as absurd, and whose pecuniary interests had to suffer thereby, quite as much as the pecuniary
interests of the patients were benefited. When, therefore, in spite of
his defence, the judges wrested the dispensation laws against him, he
would no more practice in opposition to the laws, and in his old age
he left his native land, obeyed the call of a German prince (who granted him the privilege of practising his profession in his dominions) and
went to the duke of Anhalt Coethen.
The apothecaries and professors at Leipzig now triumphed, and supposed that the mischief which threatened their utter ruin would soon
be entirely abolished. Instead of which, however, Hahnemann's disciples and adherents united themselves for the faithful defence of the
truth, and a great number of practising physicians resolved on the
publication of a periodical for Homceopathic Medicine. Dr. Ernst
Stapf, present counsellor of medical affairs, placed himself at the head
of this enterprize, and conducted it with such circumspection and ani

