
13

the result of his manipulations; and as a quiet observer of nature, he
proceeded, hand in hand with experience, still further. He added one
drop of his second (the ten thousandth) dilution, to another one hundred drops of spirits of wine, shook them together, and thus procured
a third mixture, in which each drop contained but the millionth part
of the first grain of the extract of Belladonna. On administering
this new preparation to his patients, he did not yet witness the desired
and expected decrease of medicinal energy, the remedy remained as
active as before, and in sensible children it operated frequently in
quite as drastic a manner as the extract had at first; nay, it appeared
as if it operated with even greater violence than before-and
therefore rendered necessary the exhibition of an antidote. Hahnemann, who knew that the secrets of nature had not yet been fully unveiled to us, and that any thing new and important, though ever so
striking, if its truth be attested by repeated experiment, ought to be investigated, continued to prosecute this great discovery. He added
one drop of each successive dilution to a successive portion of one
hundred drops of spirits of wine, and united them by shaking. He
perceived in the progress of these manipulations, that every successive dilution was still operative, and though attenuated a hundred fold
at every step of the process, yet by no means did it become in the
same proportion a hundred fold less efficient; in fact, each dilution
differed in activity, very little from the dilution immediately preceding. He continued, therefore, these processes with the medicine, until
experience taught him, that it had, at length, become entirely mild in
its operation. The troublesome increase of the morbid symptoms became gradually less and less considerable by dilution, nevertheless the
succeeding salutary effect remained equally decided, and even the extreme dilutions themselves, were always sufficient to effect a cure.
Remarking even from the thirtieth dilution, in very sensible subjects,
an increase of the symptoms; he diminished the dose from one drop of
this dilution, to a small portion of a drop. He discovered a mode by
which a drop could be accurately divided into any desired number of
parts, and from the I.-, and even a smaller fraction, decided effects
were witnessed from the medicine.
All other medicinal substances were found by him to be susceptible of a preparation similar to that of Belladonna. Not only those
belonging to the class of narcotics, which, in quantities, operate confessedly as poisons, but all other medicines, which are ordinarily regarded as innocent, he was obliged in the same manner to dilute in
order to convert them into mild remedies in the chosen cases.
Since Hahnemann defined (as before mentioned) so accurately the
kind of intermittent fever for which bark is a specific remedy, he remarked also, that the more suitable this medicine was to the case, the
more frequently did it produce an unnecessary and troublesome increase of the symptoms. He therefore gradually lessened the dose
of this medicine from a single drop of the tincture to the hundredth,
thousandth, and millioneth dilution, and perceived clearly, that the
latter, far from being too weak, in very sensible subjects was unnecessarily strong; he therefore continued the dilutions at first as far as the
twelfth, and subsequently up to the thirtieth.


