
20

important of all remedies. Among other diseases, it is quite indispensable in scrophula, inflamed swellings, ulcers, caries, diseases of
the eyes, &amp;c. In it, as well as in alumine, the salts and other substances, the wonderful discovery of unfolding medicinal virtues by
trituration and agitation, was displayed in all its magnitude. The pure
earths of Silex, of Alumine, &amp;c., operate not at all, for example, on the
healthy subject. When a grain of either had been triturated with a
hundred grains of sugar of milk, and hence raised to the first developement of power, it yet produced no effect. Hundreds would now
have desisted from all further investigation of its supposed virtues.
But not so Hahnemann. He took a grain of the first trituration,
which of course contained'the hundredth of a grain of the substance
under investigation, and rubbed this with another hundred grains of
sugar of milk, elevating it to the second degree of developement, or as
it may be denominated, to the second power. It still had no effect.
Taking now a grain of the second trituration, he raised it to the third
power. It still produced scarcely any effect upon the healty subject,
and the little which it did develope, could hardly be confided in. It
was then raised as high as the sixth power; and in this state of high
development every grain contained but a billionth part of the original
matter first submitted to experiment. But now its energies were developed, and displayed so penetrating and powerful an influence upon
the healthy subject of experiment, that the trials with it, appertained
to the most difficult and assaulting, so that higher developments were
obliged to be made for further experiments; and for remedial purposes the developments were continued up to the thirtieth power.Thus was this, to all appearance entirely inert substance first converted into one of most extraordinary energy, and by further elaboration
into a bland and innocent medicinal agent. By means of these Triturations and Dilutions, so called, it was the matter only which became
so minutely divided, but it was the energy, the virtue only, which was
thereby so astonishingly unfolded. It was now manifest that the proper energies of all medicines were unfolded by trituration and agitation,
and that by the extension of the matter of them, their energies, before latent, became sensible, free and disenthraled. With still greater
clearness was this established by the important fact observed by
Hahnemann, viz. that when the process of Trituration or Agitation
was too long continued, the energy of the medicine became too intensely raised, and he therefore exactly prescribes how long the trituration with sugar of milk is to be continued, and how often the vials
in which a drop is united with a hundred drops of spirits of wine,
must be shaken, in order to obtain a remedy perfectly mild in its
operation upon the patient. These preparations ought not therefore
to be transmitted from place to place in a fluid state, because their
energy is liable to be excessively increased by the long continued,
though moderate agitation, which they thus undergo.
But all these observations with medicines were but the basis of the
new edifice. Still much more was necessary in order to be able to
cure patients by these means. Among other things, Hahnemann was


