
23

medies already used, we very readily find the most fitting remedies which must exert a very favourable influence over the conditions of the case above described. The opposing vital forces infallibly awakened by it, will be directed against the general disease,
against the morbid tendency, in consequence of which all the above
recited symptoms have arisen. As soon as the opposition excited
by one medicine has ceased, it is to be followed up by other remedies, according to circumstances, and the cure gradually completed.
Now, if a part only of the symptoms in this case were taken into consideration, for instance, merely the incipient amaurosis and psoric
origin, the choice of a remedy would be exceedingly precarious. For
we have very many remedies suitable for tihese symptoms, proved by
trials on the healthy subject. Causticum,a newly discoveredsubstance,
by Hahnemann, and Phosphorus, are very important remedies when
prepared after the manner of the other Homceopathic medicines, sometimes Graphites also, and Petroleum, Kali, Natrum and other salts.
Besides, almost any of the earths, as Silicea, Alumina, Magnesia, Calcaria might be chosen in the case. Among the metals, Gold and Antimony; among plants: Lycopodium clavatum, Agaricus muscarius,
Assafoetida and Conium maculatum, and in some cases, Cannabis
and Colocynthis. Ruta also and Cinchona may in some cases be serviceable, as well as Dulcamara and Belladonna. But only one among
all these remedies, when all the complicated symptoms are regarded,
will be found perfectly suitable. Whether the cure succeed or not,
the patient will not in the least degree be incommoded with medicine,
much less will injurious consequences ensue, nor will he be subjected
(if it be not of an unusual character) to important changes in his customary diet. There never yet has been any other method of cure
than the homoeopathic, by which such results, produced with so much
safety and certainty, and with so little inconvenience to the patient,
could have been possible.
It might perhaps be further declared as ridiculous and unscientific,
that the Hahnemannean physicians should attach so much importance
to the merest trifles, and even parade them at length on paper: in fevers, for instance, they carefully enquire whether thirst takes place
before, during, or after the chill, fever, or sweating stage; whether
the chill and heat alternate, whether they are general or local, simultaneous, internal or external, what the order of their succession, with
what other symptoms they are associated, &amp;c. In tooth-ache,whether
it occurs in the right or left side, above or below, in one tooth or several, whether the pain passes into other parts and where; whether it
occurs at a particular time of day; whether it is excited, aggravated,
diminished or removed, on any particular occasion, as by warm or
cold air, warm or cold applications, warm or cold food or drink, by
rest or motion, by smoking tobacco, the use of coffee, or wine, by
mental exertion, or by particular mental emotions. In the case of a
small cutaneous eruption of the arms and feet: whether the right more
than the left side is affected, whether it occur more on the out than
inside, more about a joint, or more distant from it.
But, indeed, this observation of trifles, which physicians have hitherto wholly overlooked, this careful collection of even the most insignificant and apparently unimportant circumstances, as is here required,


