
18

not without their influence. Even from Egypt, that land of monsters,
the missionaries extol the new art, and resound its praises from the
sanguinary Gold coast.
In England and in the United States little is heard of the new art.
They have scarcely begun to hear of the medical reformation even
rising up before them. Some reviewers only within a few years past,
have noticed the writings for and against Homceopathia. These countries have conducted with the utmost quietude and discretion. In
both, the physicians of which, for the most part, are governed more
by experience than by theories, it has been admitted, that if the system were true, it would lead to highly important consequences. Yes,
certainly experience would long since have been appealed to on the
subject, if alas! the almost general unacquaintance with theGerman language among the better classes (one of the most important languages for
the arts and sciences,) had not hindered that result. Soon indeed, will
this defect be supplied by translations, but may we not hope that the
period is not far distant when, in the United States at least, the worth
of German science and of the language of Germany will be generally
acknowledged? May the day soon appear in which the rich and fortunate inheritance of two thousand years of European culture, uniting
the practical views of the English with the ardent zeal of the French,
embrace also the depth and solidity of the German, so that whatever
Europe may produce hereafter of greatness in science, may, without
difficulty be here appreciated in this central point of the future history
of man.
While thus with blessings on its wings, the great discovery reached
to every quarter of the earth, the master was silent, and his disciples
imagined that he now reposed upon his laurels. But the old philosopher did not rest, and while his hair was growing grey upon his head,
enriched with science, enriched with experience, his mind still retained its youthful vigour, and he boldly penetrated still deeper into the
mysteries of nature. When an old man, at the age of seventy-three,
he suddenly surprized his astonished admirers with a new and great
work, which far transcended all preceding discoveries, and more than
redoubled the power of the homceopathic physician. It was a work
On the Cure of Chronic Diseases, the fruit of twelve years diligence;
a communication concerning a new and most important species of
remedies, a treasury of new observations and experience scarcely
to be overlooked, with entirely new and peculiar directions for the
employment of these remedies in disease. These new observations
were soon confirmed on all sides, and this great increase of resources
for the new healing art, acquired for it, every where, also a numerous
accession of new adherents.
A second journal, in addition to that of Dr. Stapf, likewise soonmade
its appearance, devoted exclusively to the practice, followed by a third,
besides a newspaper for the people, and lastly, at the same time with the
French Journal, before mentioned, a fourth in the German language,
intended speedily to extend the knowledge of new discoveries. In
these and in a number of other publications, details of diversified experience were communicated, and the most interesting discoveries and


