
21

abliged to strike out a new path in the doctrine of diseases, in which
the first step was, totally to reject all hypothesis at the bed side of
the patient, concerning nature, essense, and the supposed concealed
seat of the disease. And this was done, not only because these suppositions, (of which every physician may have one peculiar to himself, the truth of which can be determined only when too late, namely, after the demise of the patient,) might in many cases be prejudicial to the patient, but because they became no longer necessary.
The symptoms only in their integrity were necessary, and upon them
the entire cure could be safely grounded. Nothing, indeed, but the
symptoms are to be accepted as a guide to the treatment of the disease,
because, in them alone, no error is possible: For just as clear of all
conjecture,just as much by faithful observation alone, as was the case
in acquiring a knowledge of the virtues of medicines, must a knowledge
of every case of disease be acquired. Be the name of the disease
what it may, it is nothing to the purpose, and is without any influence upon its treatment. But so much the more necessary is it, that
every case of disease should be completely comprehended in all its
symptoms and with great accuracy. Hahnemann therefore urges
upon his pupils the propriety of addicting themselves to close thinking, by the study of the Mathematics, of qualifying themselves for
minute observation, by the study of natural history, and when possible also by the art of drawing, for the purpose of sharpening the sight
to close observation, but in an especial manner by testing the effects of
medicines in their own persons.
While he recognized anatomical and physiological knowledge as by
all means indispensable, he admitted the study generally, of the prevailing systems of medicine, on account of the historical knowledge
and of controversies with other physicians. Yet he makes the general pathology as taught hitherto, and the greater part of the special,
altogether unnecessary at the bed side of the patient. He regulates
the examination of the sick according to entirely new views, in order
that a clear, genuine, undisturbed and perfect idea may always be
formed of the disease. The idea of the disease must, indeed, attain a
degree of perfection such as has never hitherto been considered necessary by physicians. Hahnemann requires, therefore, as a matter
not to be overlooked, the writing down on every occasion, at the bed
side of the patient, all his symptoms; indeed, with an accuracy hitherto unleard of, he commits to writing all the complaints of the patient, in the verbal expressions of the latter, and these are to be included in the idea of the disease. Nor is it less novel that he requires the
seat of every symptom to be exactly and expressly defined, even if, according to our present anatomical knowledge, this would appear unnecessary. With the same accuracy is the kind of pain to be noted,
and he always carefully records the expressions by which the kind of
pain is the most strictly designated. All the circumstances under
which any complaint arises or disappears, increases or diminishes;
whether in motion or at rest, in certain situations and postures, whether by warmth or cold, in the open air or in a room, by light, by
noises, by talking or thinking, eating or drinking, touch or pressure,
emotions of the mind or mental exertions-all must be taken into account. Sensations on falling asleep, during sleep and on waking,


