
rnd those whose habits are perverted have considerable difficlty of
'conducting it aright.
As soon as the homoeopathic physician has sought out the image bf
the disease in the manner above described, his next business consists
in selecting out of all his remedies, that particular one, which comprehends all the symptoms of the patient in the greatest similarity,
not only as respects the mere number, symptom for symptom, but alsd
according to their different grades or relative value. He should always be convinced that the remedy which he selects is better suited
to the case than any other, which, among the numerous remedies and
the extensive ranfge of the curative virtues possessed by many of
them, is nd easy busihess. To this frequently difficult and careful
selection belongs aif extensive acquaintance with medical 6bservations,
and a close study of the idiosyncrasies (peculiarities) of the patient.
A mistake cannot, however, be easily committed in such selection; because it mrust, after all, depend upon the necessary similarity of the
syrptoms of the patient with those of the remedy. Injury cannot
indeed result from a false selection; for it is soon to be discovered,
and is free from all dangerous consequences to the patient. But in
order to effect a rapid cure, to avoid a false selection, and to be convinced of the correctness of the selection by a close comparison, much
time and pains are requisite, particularly in chronic diseases. Even
with the advantage of several years practice, together with a comprehensive knowledge of the reiedies, it often requires long and careful consideration and an unwearied search and comparison of the image of the symptoms presented by the disease, with the image of those
presented by the medicine.  The time between visiting the patient
and dispensing the medicine is therefore the most anxious to the
homoeopathic physician, and his calling is a far more difficult one than
that of the ordinary practitioner. With all his knowledge of the virtues of remedies he would be able to treat but a small number of
patients, if the great mass of experience which is constantly commuriicated from all gides, Embodied and daily increased, did not very
much facilitate the selectiori. This experience already extends to all
diseases, and particularly to the most serious, because these more
frequently come under the observation of the homceopathic physician.
The most acute and dangerous diseases, as inflammation of the lungs,
'pleurisy, inflammation of the brain and liver, and of the ear, appoplexy and convulsions, most of the diseases of children, and even the
most malignant forms of typhus, are the easiest of all in the choice
of a remedy. For, the multiplied experience with regard to them,
has ascertained so precisely the remedy for every case, particdlarly
cases of the most threatening nature, which requite immediate relief,
that he who is acquainted with the latter, can immediately select
the suitable medicine. As this on the one hand facilitates the choice
of the appropriate remedy, in all acute diseases, so, on the other, in
chronic diseases, the frequently very protracted readtion of the 6rganization following the exhibition of a rightly selected medicine, renders
it practicable for the homceopathic physician to visit a larger number
of patients than it would otherlwise be possible. But so overwhelming a practice as many physicians of the old method have, in which
they enjoy the advantage of short visits, and quickly writing a re
cipe--cannot be reconciled with Homaeopathia.
D


