
27

other substances used for their aroma, is to be avoided, because they
are capable of producing prejudicial disturbances, and none more so
than musk. Moderate indulgence in other things is not prohibited. Hahnemann has never forbidden the use of animal food, or prescribed a thin penurious diet, unless on the day succeeding that of
overloading the stomach with food. Never has it occurred to him to
think of curing the patient by means of diet alone.
-*8He ~ e~*--
Thus has Hahnemann beaten a new path on all sides. His admirable observations and manifold experience have constantly advanced
the new art created by his instrumentality, and every year brings
with it fresh proofs of his genius. He has discovered a numerous,
useful and widely efficient class of remedies against Chronic Diseases,
whereby the most of these complaints, when they have not been seriously impaired by the abuse of medicines, and become inveterate, can
be perfectly cured. Against the mercurial disease, that artificial
plague of the present day, he has discovered several new remedies,
so that this multiform and too frequently incurable complaint, can at
least be ameliorated and the more intolerable of its symptoms assuaged. Against Sycosis a disease allied to Syphilis, and hitherto totally incurable, he has discovered a specific remedy in the American
Thuya. Against the genuine Scarlet fever of Sydenham, as already
mentioned, he has discovered a remedy in Belladonna; against Purpura miliaris, Coffea and Aconite; against many forms of Measles,
Pulsatilla; against the Hooping cough, Drosera; against Croup, Spongia mar: tost; against Raphania, which sometimes rages pestilentially
in Europe, and 6nce here in Albany, produced by secale cornutum
he discovered the most speedy and certain remedy in Solanum Nigrum; against the often prevalent and mortal autumnal dsventery, the
specific Mere: cor: sub. He also determined the infallible remedy
against the camp plague of 1813, in the malignant forms of Typhus
generally, and in most violent fevers. One of his most important discoveries, however, was a specific remedy against all pure inflamation,
particularly that of the lungs, and in Pleurisy; whereby the hazardous,
always debilitating, and commonly but apparently useful operation of
bloodletting, can be altogether dispensed with.
But a real triumph of this new method of cure was Hahnemann's
recent project of the specific remedies against the most violent and
malignant forms of cholera. It consisted in the use of camphor, particularly against the Cholera Asphyxia, and cuprum against that attended with clonic spasms.  But in the ordinary cases and in
Cholerine he 'did not deem it necessary to recommend any remedies, to the notice of his disciples, because all physicians who
trusted to Iomaeopathia, though living in countries widely remote
from each other, found of themselves the same specific remedies.
However varied were its forms in the different countries and
in different individuals, and as multiform  and strange and malignant as it was, they cured in Russia as well as in Hungary, in
Vienna and Prague as well as in Berlin, in Philadelphia, as well
as in Germany with equal success. The most recent statements


