
17

mated it with such spirit and zeal, that this journal soon became an
important means, as well to unite all the scattered friends of the cause
to a mutual co-operation, as to operate beneficially abroad, to promote the extension and acknowledgement of the new doctrines, and
for their constant and energetic defence against enemies. Violent accusations and invectives, and defences as firm and resolute now ensued. But day by day also new adherents were acquired, mostly
among the older practitioners; a phenomenon in.new systems, entirely
unheard of. Their'attention became arrested by the numerous cures,
and when they took the trouble to make themselves so far acquainted with the thing as to be able to interrogate experience, they
must in every instance have become convinced, for experience confirmed every declaration of Hahnemann.
But particularly the eyes of the public became more opened at this
time. At first they had taken no part whatever in the medical controversy; they had been accustomed to these endless contentions, and
therefore gave themselves no trouble about it. The most judicious
of them knew but too well, in what a condition the whole art of medicine was situated, and that in the greater number of cases, in chronic diseases at least, it was more rational to do nothing at all, and bear
their complaints with patience, than to acquire an additional disease
by the use of medicines. But the language of Hahnemann and of his
disciples, which continually urged to a trial of the new doctrines, and
rejected all theoretical opposition; but above all, the many extraordinary cures, awakened an increasing attention. Several intelligent
non-professional individuals, among whom were numbered some of
distinguished rank and reputation, raised their voices and instructed
their fellow citizens concerning the new phenomenon, as a matter
of high importance for every one; spoke of the complicated state of
the old system of medicine, of the want of unity and concord, which
must necessarily prevail therein, of the obstinate refusal of the other
physicians to interrogate experience and make trials with the new method of cure, of the natural simplicity and truth of the new doctrines,
and the consequent unanimity of their adherents. Numerous publications were thrown before the people, nor was it long before patients
obliged their physicians to the study of the despised doctrines; whole
cities, indeed, were individually united in calling homneopathic physicians within their precincts, to be remunerated at the common expense.
Physicians in several parts of Germany soon did homage to the new
art, its light even penerated into Austria, and was diffused throughout Hungary. It was carried to Naples, and in that kingdom gained
stedfast adherents. In Denmark, also, as well as in Sweden and Holland, men of high reputation commenced the translation of Hahnemann's writings. It acquired numerous friends in France, particularly in Lyons, and in Geneva, where a homceopathic periodical publication, in the French language, has already made its appearance. The
physician in ordinary of a Russian princess, carried the new doctrines into the wilds of Russia, whence at a subsequent period, a
Russian nobleman has communicated observations of extraordinary value to the new system. This beneficent art has also confirmed
its truth in the vilified diseases of the West India tropics; and many
investigations to which nature gave occasion in these regions, were
C


