
14

The medicinal virtue of insoluble mineral substances was developed by Hahnemann, in the following manner: He took the sugar of
milk, it being an unmedicinal (or inert) vehicle, and triturated for the requisite time, one grain of the medicine generally, with a hundred grains
of that substance. Of this mixture, one grain being rubbed up with
another hundred grains of thesugar of milk,gave the second Trituration;
in which every grain contained the --p- part of a grain of the original medicine, &amp;c. When in this manner he prepared mercury, and
at first gave the hundredth, and subsequently the ten-thousandth and
then the millionth, he perceived that the latter doses were not only
fully sufficient for the cure, but always acted with more rapidity and
mildness, and assaulted with less violence the patient.
Hahnemann now treated all other medicines which he employed,
after the same manner, and found the same principle confirmed alike
in all. The virtues of none were thereby impaired, the dilutions were
always operative, and might effectively be carried further at pleasure.
Medicines which had undergone these operations, no longer possessed
those long continued effects of a prejudicial character, which we so
'frequently have to witness from the crude articles. Their operation
is always rapid, of short continuance, and without danger. If the
opposition of the vital energies be inordinately excited by them, the
salutary re-action is often protracted to an extraordinary length.Should this not be the case, the disease subsides without any antecedent perceptible aggravation. For, medicines do not become salutary by their direct effects, such as are manifested in experiments on
healthy subjects after strong and frequent doses, but they are salutary
by reason of their after operation, or rather of the counteraction of the
organization-the infallible contrarietv which their secondary must
bear towards their primary effects, and which must at the same time,
be equally opposed to the analogous action of the disease.
Moreover, these dilutions were thus extraordinarily small in appearance only: they were in fact operative by reason of the pure energy
proper to the medicine developed by art, and not by reason of the original matter of it. Hence they could not be too small or too weak;
for it was shown in a manner not to be mistaken, that the proper medicinal virtue was by no means diminished in them, but, in their
lower grades it was at first unfolded and developed, and it was only
by their continuation that it began again to decrease. But as regards its
capability of exciting the organization to salutary action, there was
never any diminution, it was still witnessed, even though the dilutions
were continued, until they reached some hundreds in nuniber. In the
higher dilutions, however, it was so modified, as more quickly to excite the organization to opposition, but the opposition continued for a
shorter time.
When Hahnemann had made this great discovery, his important
investigations and trials of the new law of cure were much facilitated,
after, to use his own words, he " had tremblingly, but fortunately,
laid aside this hazardous way," and used the medicine in increasingl
smaller and finer doses: that is to say, had learned to employ the developed virtue only. And now, after he had tested a great number
of medicines in healthy subjects, and had investigated their pure effects, he could interrogate experience in the diversified forms of dis

