
26

Hahnemann not only instituted a new method of examining the
sick, and an entirely new Therapeutica, but also a new Diatetica.
He gave to this important doctrine, which before him was composed
on no certain principles, the first scientific basis. Opponents, who
must have perceived this, cast upon him the ridiculous reproach, that
he cured his patients by diet alone. Rarely, however, having all the
advantage of the same diet, could they imitate Hahnemann in his
cures. Nay, they carried the dieting system almost to starvation, a
wholly unnatural proscription, yet it rendered them no assistance,
and quite as little benefited their patients. Hahnemann's entire system of diet, besides his psycho-diatetic precepts, wholly peculiar tc
himself, consists in removing from the patient all foreign medicinal influences, in order that the medicines given, may act in as undisturbed
a manner as possible. Experiments performed on the healthy subject
had taught him, that aromatics of every kind are endowed with peculiarly active properties, as well as medicines, properly so called,
and exert on the tnimal economy an influence, which, though it may
become imperceptible from habit, nevertheless exists, and is capable
of disturbing the.action of many remedies. As the result of these investigations, several of the aromatics were even classed by him among
important remedial, agents; among these may be enumerated Coffee,
Saffron and Parsley, Capsicum and Tobacco. Moreover, in the course
of his investigations, he discovered that some articles possessed the properties of antidotes; thus vinegar was found incompatible with some
remedies, wine with others, coffee with others, &amp;c, These articles
would therefore naturally be interdicted, when they happen to be incompatible with the remedies prescribed for the patient. Among other
things, Hahnemann also observed the prejudicial influence of the flesh
of swine and of other animals inhabiting marshy places, in diseases
of the abdominal viscera and of the skin; nor were the effects of very
young animals, or of milk recently taken from the cow less injurious,
and these articles of food were, therefore, prohibited in diseases of organs upon which they exercised a morbid influence. All his directions regarding the regimen, consist entirely of experimental propositions; they constitute, indeed, a strictly complete and scientific fabric,
as respects the ideal of a perfect manner of living, but the prescriptions in individual cases, are modified according to circumstances.
The more violent the attack of disease, the more does a strict avoidance of all foreign medicinal influences become necessary; but
when it partakes more of a chronic character, the necessity for
changes in the customary manner of living is proportionably diminished. In most chronic cases, indeed, nothing more is necessary than
abstinence from gross excess, and caution in the use of aromatics.
All pure unadulterated drinks may be used in moderation, as well as
the customary spices, together with salt, sugar and vinegar, coffee,
black tea, tobacco, &amp;c. But the use of brandy and other spirituous
liquors is in all cases to be refrained from, or if already become habitual, it must be gradually discontinued. Hahnemann considers all
spirituous drinks positively injurious, and that the cure is obstructed
by their use. The internal or external employment of all other medicines and domestic remedies, even those of a reputed harmless character, and as much as possible, all strong odors, as perfumery and


