
Hippocrates, nor like ourselves, in modern times, with respect to all
other natural sciences, made pure experiment the basis of all their conclusions. Bacon, the first awakener of Europe, had indeed, established
this method for the acquisition of all positive science, and had restrained metaphysical speculation within its proper limits. Sydenham likewise, by his own great example had taught, that experience should
be placed above theory in medicine, yet the great truth had not been
hitherto justly regarded. Much indeed was said of experience, but
such experience was for the most part impure; experiments were
made with a view to establish preconceived opinions, or were constantly blended with hypothesis, the former were made to bend to
the latter, and the one was never rigidly separated from the other.
Even from that country which gave birth to a Bacon, a Sydenham
and a Jenner, at a subsequent period, flowed like a stream of desolating lava the murderous system of Brown-parallelled only in modern times by its two children, the choleric contrastimulus of Italy,
and the inflated and enthusiastic, yet somewhat blood-thirsty system
of Broussais. The Germans excelling all other nations in extensive,
profound and various erudition, surpass likewise in the love of constructing systems, and in scientific fancies. A luxuriant and flowing
tree, the natural philosophy of Schelling, shot forth, and upon this
stock shortly after, new systems of medicine were engrafted, which were
commanding, fair and seductive, in their promise of dazzling results;
but at the bed side of the patient their results were found nugatory.
The scientific zeal of the Germans became intensely enkindled by that
spirit of research which penetrated into every department of science,
and their endeavours to extend the bounds of human knowledge were
excited anew; but at the bed side of the patient their fine ideas were
unavailing. These researches led to important discoveries in all the
natural sciences, but medicine, the most useful of all, received thereby
no valuable acquisition. But previously to these events Hahnemann
had already begun to ply his strength in an opposite direction. In
the same country, where the towering edifice of hypothetical medicine was about to attain its loftiest and most giddy height, there
arose at the same time in direct antithesis, the pure experimental
science of Hahnemann.: Convinced that enquiries after the reason
of Phenomena were fruitless, and therefore inadmissible, Hahnemann
sought to scan the laws of these phenomena. Antecedent experience
did not suffice him, he desired to receive it more pure and authentic.
For him, the descriptions of the symptoms of diseases hitherto made,
were too deficient;-he required them to be described more carefully
and precisely, free from all hypothesis, and according strictly with the
phenomena presented. He therefore began to administer medicines
in their simple form, he collected his experience of their effects and
described the diseases in which they had been salutary. But though
all this was very meritorious, his observations after all, were but
isolated and individual. Although he assimilated with those great
practitioners Sydenham and Hoffman, Boerhaave and Gaubius, Stoll,
Quarin, Cullen and De Haen, whatever valuable experience these had
* "If Germany furnishes the bane, it gives us the antidote too."-Page 15 of C. P.
KRAUTH'S Oration on the advantages arising to the American Student, from his access to
German literature, by means of the knowledge of the German Language, 1832.


