
15

ase. Then it was, that by innumerable facts, the truth of the great
aw of cure, and its universal applicability in disease, were unfolded
o him. He perceived that it was a law of nature of general validity
n every case of disease, that that remedy is always the suitable one
9hich has the property of exciting in the healthy subject, such morbid
ymptoms as are the most similar to the natural disease. Therefore he
gave to the new method of cure the name of the homaeopathic, that is,
L method which employs remedies in exciting a similar affection.
Meanwhile Hahnemann vigourously prosecuted his gigantic work,
nd his enquiries were directed not only into the virtues hitherto unknown, of medicines, but also into the special application of the general law of cure to the multiplied forms of disease. Finally, at the age
)f fifty, he gave to the world, as the result of twenty years investigation and experience, his Organon of Medicine, a work in which he
attempts theoretically to explain and demonstrate that law, indicates
he manner of its application to individual cases of disease, teaches'
he art of preparing medicines for this purpose, and offers the rules
ccording to which the effects of medicines are to be investigated
pon the system in health.
Beyond Germany this work remained for a long time wholly unnown. Germany was not then recognized as a central point of literaure, as it now begins to be, even in London and Paris. The labours of
he Germans,who constantly and eagerly borrow all that is most valuale in the arts andsciences from the available sources of all times and of
very nation, were at that time misunderstood, and their comprehenive and disinterested enquiries into the labours of others, were mistaen for meagerness of resources. In short, until a few years, this new
nd important work, in common with many others, beyond Germany,
as known scarcely by name. In Germany itself, it was received
ith real amazement. It found indeed, adhrents and induced enuiry here and there among those not of the profession, but this was
y no means the case among the mass of the literati, at least among
he professors. Among the contemporary professors of medicine, of
hich there were more than two hundred who received salaries in Gerany,among all the hospital physicians, there was not one who was inuced to study it. Before a single scientific enquirer of reputation
ad made any experiments, and thus investigated the truth of the new
octrine, the reviewers with very learned and subtile conclusions,
roved that the author's theories were good for nothing, were not at
11 new, and that the small doses were ridiculous. This was the sum
nd substance of all the reviews and counter-statements at that time,
nd remains to be so at the present day. To no purpose did Iahneann urge to the investigation of the fundamental principles of his
octrines by experiment-it was considered not at all worth the pains.
[he German savans appeared sensible, that if both these propositions
vere established, if remedies should be chosen according to the simiarity of their symptoms to those of the disease, and hence must first
e proved in the healthy-subject, if they were sufficient as remedial
gents in such small and unheard-of doses, then all the learned lumber


