
4

rendered him one of the greatest medical geniuses, unknown at that
time. He contributed not a little, even at that early period, to the improvement of medicine; among other things he directed his attention to
the subject of poisons, which were then treated in a very unsafe and
precarious manner, and his book on the Poison of Arsenic, was at
that time of great and acknowledged value. The Hahnemannean
test for wines, spread his reputation extensively, and first placed a
limitation to the nefarious practice of adulterating these liquors with
lead. The discovery of the well known mercurial preparation Mercurius Solubilis Hahnemanni, as well as his instructions concerning a
more simple and effectual mode of treating syphilitic diseases, secured
to his name an honourable place among practitioners of medicine,
and his translations from the English, French and Italian writers,
were of considerable utility. In one of his large works he has provided for the more scientific instruction of the apothecary, and produced a very beneficial influence in this, hitherto, so indispensable a
calling to medicine. This work brought him into great repute with
the apothecaries of Germany, who at that time as little imagined as
Hahnemann himself, that in so short a time he was about to render
their entire profession superfluous. All his writings, including the
many notes appended to his translations, denote the learned and thoroughly accomplished physician, the strict and conscientious man, the
earnest enquirer after truth, and the profound observer.
But the more deeply Hahnemann penetrated into the study of medical science, and in proportion as his experience became enlarged at
the bed side of the patient, so much the more manifest to him was the
abundant penury of the healing art, and particularly the great uncertainty of its fundamental principles. The nature of diseases was involved in obscurity, notwithstanding the continual researches of numerous enquirers; indeed, the more learned the physicians, the more
divided frequently were they in opinion respecting the proper cause
and nature of a disease, and yet against the cause and nature their
treatment must always be directed.
The result of medical treatment was in but too many cases unfavourable, very often wholly uncertain, nay, sometimes apparently depending upon mere casualty;in diseases too, which had already been
investigated and described by innumerable observers-diseases whose
original causes were known, the entire nature, the proper essence of
which, it was presumed, were intimately understood. The numerous
cases of failure in the cure must have convinced every impartial and
candid physician of the melancholy truth, that injurious effects often
arose from niedical interference, that many diseases instead of being
alleviated, were thereby, only the more exasperated-and that actual
cures but too rarely occured. Nor could it escape the notice of every
faithful observer, that not unfrequently after the removal of one disease, another soon occupied its place, which if not worse than the
former, was to a similar degree injurious. Such was the condition of
medicine at that time, and notwithstanding the many apparent improvements it has acquired, such remains the condition of the prevailing art of medicine at the present day.  These, by the way, are not
the views of one discontented observer alone. The voices of physicians of acknowledged eminence, have at different times been loud on


