
19

observations were accumulated, concerning the employment of remedies in particularly difficult cases. By these means, this, till recently,
youthful art, soon attained the vigour of manhood, and now stalks
forth with peaceful intrepidity through the world, certain of its victory over all other methods of cure.
We will now glance at the elevation to which Homoeopathic Medicine has reached at the present day, five years since the appearance
of the work on chronic diseases.
Experiments with medicines upon the healthy subject, as the basis
of the whole structure, have now been made with about two hundred
agents, and the most important medicinal energies of nature have
been investigated. The works devoted to them are of such extent,
that their study appertains to the most laborious within the realm of
human knowledge. Not only are the more important remedies of the
old school investigated, but many others; and besides this, most wonderful discoveries have been made. Substances in which not the smallest medicinal virtue had been recognised, as metalic gold, silver and
platina, silicea, alumina, strontiana, selenium, several plants, the juice
of the sepia, and many other animal substances, are ranked among
the most important remedies. Old and effete medicines have thereby
been elevated to their deserved rank, and in cases adapted for them
are now without a substitute: for example, Lycopodium, Bryonia,
Pulsatilla, Anacardium, Euphrasia, &amp;c. Medicines which had seldom been used, and only for minor purposes, as Sem: Santonici and
Sabadilla, Spigelia and Staphisagria, Mazerium and Cocculus are now
recognised as indispensable remedies in the most dangerous diseases.
Plants whose efficacy as remedies had been unknown, as Nerium Oleander, Ledum Palustre, Cyclamnen Europaeum, Cannabis Sativa, Caladium Seguinum, Drosera Rotundifolia and Lycoperdon Bovista are
introduced into the medical store, and in part recognised as specifics,
in some of the worst of diseases. Medicines which had been abused as
insignificant domestic remedies,Matricaria Chamomilla, (the field Chamomile of Europe,) and Sambucus, Chelidonium and Ruta, are now
received as highly valuable curative means in very different, but in
closely defined cases; others, as Cinchona and Arnica, Ipecacuanha and
Tartar Emetic display now, for the first, the whole compass of their
curative energies and relations to disease, before wholly unsuspected;
by virtue of which, for example, Cinchona may be usefully employed
in many violent cases of tooth-ache, Arnica in biles, Ipecacuanha
in the convulsions of children, Tartar Emetic in Coma, &amp;c. Nux
Vomica and Ignatia of which scarcely any use was made, from ignorance of their virtues, now developed them in such abundance, that
they became necessary remedies of daily use. But the most extraordinary of all, were the effects displayed by the simple earths and
salts, when their virtues were duly developed. (Potenzirt.) Never
had it occured to a physician to employ flint as a remedy, and he
would not at all know for what he could administer it. But Hahnemann, who supposed peculiar virtues resided in particular substances, has by means of his experiments, elevated Silex among the moat


