
that this is a disease remarkably similar to the small pox, and that
by it, the susceptibility to the latter is destroyed.
Hahnemann also found narratives in the writings of physicians of
both ancient and modern date, of very many cases of one disease or
the other being cured in a remarkable manner, with this or the other
remedy, while other narrators again, ignorant of these accounts, related what the same remedies had incidentally produced, and these incidental symptoms were strikingly similar to those diseases which had been
cured by the remedies.
A collection of such. quotations has been made and communicated
by Hahnemann in his work. Other facts tending to confirm the same
law are also cited by him, such as the well known cure of frostbitten limbs by means of snow, that the most appropriate cures for
burns are not cooling but heating remedies, such as the application
of cotton, spirits of wine, and oil of turpentine; the latter of which, since
Hahnemann's observation, has been noticed by Abernethy, and by
Larry, as an effectual remedy after the use of moxa. We recollect
also, that the cure of certain cases of acidity of the stomach, we are
told by an American physician, may be the best effected not with
magnesia, but lemon juice. Other cures of a similar character might
be mentioned, such for example, as the cure of the sweating fever by
means of sudorifics; diarrhoea, by means of laxative remedies and the
like-to be found in the writings of impartial observers; cures which
though they may, indeed, be explained in another manner, are certainly very striking and remarkable by their great number and important bearing.
But, how much soever the preceding examples may declare in corroboration of the Homceopathic law, they do not prove that that law is
the chief one, and to be laid down as the principle of the healing
art. It still remained questionable whether the newly discovered law
had universal validity, and was applicable in all cases. Hahnemann
found during his researches, that several physicians had already conjectured and even openly asserted that it was. None however,had verified it in a manner by which alone it could be verified, that is, by a
series of experiments. In some of the writings ascribed to Hippocrates, a passage occurs, which says: " medicines cure diseases similar to what they produce." Paracelsus, also, who had rent asunder the
chains imposed by Aristotle and Galen, more than once observes, that
"it is a perverted method taught by Galen, to give remedies which
produce the contrary of the disease, remedies ought to be administered which act similarly to it." Hieronymus Cardanus and Thomas
Erastus, at the same time expressed their approval of this law of cure.
About the middle of the last century, a Danish physician very explicitly pronounces that the supreme law of cure is not contraria contrariis, but similia similibus. Yet, notwithstanding which, there never had been a physician who in earnest, made any use of this law,
much less pursued farther these important speculations.
The same was the case in the discovery of America.-Among the
ancient Greeks evident traces are extant of their knowledge of a country in the west; the northern navigators had traditions of vessels having really sailed there, and long before Columbus made the discovery
of America, Martin Behaim, of Neuremberg, constructed a terrestrial
B


