
29

art, which after years of study, careful examination and comparison
with others he accepts as the only beneficial one-the same confidence
must his patients possess and retain, even if the result in some cases
does not fully answer their expectations. The physician can perform
his labours with pleasure, though tenfold more arduous than by other
methods, and his vocation, otherwise so full of anxiety and solicitude,
is rendered pleasant by the treatment of such patients.
May this essay contribute to conduct individuals who are not yet
fully convinced, into the path wherein conviction may be attained.
May the worthy members, at whose instance this hasty sketch was
prepared, be at least incited to further investigations; may they be
among the first who are thoroughly won to the truth of the new art,
the important benefits of which, our grand children only will reap to
their full extent. May our beneficent Society largely contribute to
the wider prevalence and reception of the Hahnemannean doctrines;
may that which single individuals can of themselves scarcely achieve,
be effectuated by united efforts; then in this blessed country, may
the miseries of disease be diminished, future generations be rescued
from its leaden fetters, the bitterest human misery,-disease bearing down all earthly joy, become less from year to year, and the.
sweetest boon on earth-health and domestic felicity, become the
portion of growing thousands here as well as in Germany. In
spite of all adversaries, in spite of impediments, it will nevertheless succeed here sooner than in Europe; for, among a free people, who with practised eyes, soon discern the truly useful, a
treasure like this new Art, must quickly be estimated in a degree
commensurate with its real value; sooner than by the kings and
princes of Europe, who have other and more important cares; sooner
than in those countries where ancient institutions and prescriptive
interests are supported by a vigilant police, who impede the progress
of the new Art by processes, penalties and bayonets. Here we are
beyond their influence. The American people demand facts, and
Upon these we can confidently and securely rest for our support. The
language of opposition may be employed against it, but truth is not
long obscured here by forms of speech.-The victory will be ours;
and in a century to come the anniversary of our society,-this first
step upon the way which must lead to the public and general acknowledgement of the new doctrines,-will be solemnized with grateful remembrance. So great an aim, indeed, cannot be attained without
labour, but we are prepared to undertake it; we shall not arrive at
it without conflict, but we stand equipt for conflict; we shall not reach
it without defamation; but we will suffer ridicule and defamation
with composure.
" So slowly does truth force its way in opposition to existing prejudices and interests, that we dare not indulge the hope of seeing such a
reformation accomplished in our days. Yet a little impulse is sometimes sufficient to set in motion the stream of public opinion, which
gathering force year after year, from continual accessions of experience and reflection swells at last into an irresistable current, and
sweeps away the stubbornest mud-banks of corruption and error."--
(Edinburgh Review, September, 1826, p. 513.)


