
28

received from all quarters have brilliantly established this.  All
homceopathic physicians, as soon as they saw  the patients and
made themselves accurately acquainted with the symptoms, were
unanimous in their method of treatment, without having the opportunity of previous conference.  While a hundred hypotheses,
which were intended to illustrate the nature of cholera, arose and
disappeared around them, the Homceopathic physicians gave themselves no concern about its hidden nature. They were guided by
the symptoms alone, and thus they were all enabled to find the suitable remedies against the disease.* i'his agreement of so many hundreds of physicians in the treatment of so terrible a disease, is unparalleled in the history of medicine, and proof enough of the truth of
the new Doctrine.
The new Art of Healing is not to be judged by its success in
isolated cases only, but according to its success in general, its innate truth, and the incontrovertable nature of its fundamental
principles. In consequence of the prevailing views, according to
which a cure is extorted by means of violent medicines, in consequence,
of the common manner of silencing, as soon as possible, troublesome
symptoms, by means of palliatives, and the copious blood-lettings
which too often render a repetition necessary, and whose injurious consequences are repaired with difficulty, if at all; in consequence of the
daily calomel and the, ightly opium, and the terrible abuse of Nostrums,
or quack medicines, the greater number of patients before they have
recourse to Homoeopathia, are so far spoiled that either no cure at all,
or a very tedious process of cure is possible. The instances also are
not rare, in which unintentional or careless iiterruptions on the part
of the patient during the cure, mars the finest performance of the physiciar. HIence, we are desirous that every patient who may hereafter
place himself under this method of cure, may in the first place acquire
so much knowledge of it, as to be convinced that Homeopathia is a
medical art which rests upon pure experience, according to. which
the remedies are always administered, and, when no relief whatever
is possible they do no injury, but while it yet remains possible are.
capable of affording relief; that without extorting yiolent alterations,
it always as much as possible supports the strength of the patient; and
by it, every pomplaint as far as its nature permits, may be ameliorated,
or entirely cured. Under this method, patients not previously injured
by the abuse of remredies when their diseases are of rapid tendency, are
almost; always quickly, but when chronic, though more slowly, yet proportionably in a very short time, conducted to, a safe cure. They
must become convinced that every other method of treatment though,
conducted by the most judicious physician, is always, agreeably to its
nature, uncertain, and that it may very easily becpme injurious. They
must regard every cure by quack remedies as a prize in a lottery, in
which blind accident only throws out to a few individuals the prize,
but to a thousand the blanks; and in all lotteries no one is more cer-,
ain of winning than the vender.
%  he same unlimited confidence which tile physician has in tlhs pe


