
24

has been reckoned of the highest consequence in all other sciences
which claim any pretension to the title of exact. Every one knows
that the chemistry of the present day emerged from its early and rude
condition to its present greatness and splendour, by reason of the great
attention which was bestowed upon minutim. Such is the case also
in physics, and how otherwise would the extraordinary discoveries of
Oerstedt ever have arisen, spreading over all human sciences an!entirely new light. This attention tominutice has long since renovated
Anatomy and Zootomy. Folly only would esteem it ridiculous, should
a great anatomist in the eyes of men, make the discovery of a nervous
filament, which had been overlooked by preceding observers; for,
every scientific man knows that it may hereafter be of great importance, and that an accurate knowledge of the smallest parts, contributes
to the knowledge of the whole. No physician would disregard the discovery, though its practical utility should not become manifest for
years.
What surprising and important acquisitions have the Botanists
made to general science, by the discovery of the wonderful regularity
of the structure of the smallest cryptogamous plants, wholly unnoticed
in the observations of Linnaeus! And should not the United States
be proud of the discoveries of their Schweinitz?who in this new world,
after years of diligent investigation, first established the fact, that the
same laws, even in those microscopic figures, prevailed in both hemispheres; and plants which appear like grey points upon a diseased
leaf, now solve the sublime problem of the laws of vegetable formation, which are recognized from those points up to the loftiest trees,
and the most gorgeous flowers.
An entirely new mineralogy has arisen in our days, by the measurement of the smallest fascets and angles of crystalline formations. In
short, by careful attention to minutim a new era has dawned upon all
the natural sciences. Wherefore then should the physician in his pathology henceforth overlook things apparently insignificant? Surely even
now, though nothing at present be added to the contributions of Hahnemann, a new period has dawned upon pathology, as well as on all
the certain sciences; and in future time, the new pathology will as far
excel the old, as do the natural sciences of the present period those
of the last century.
But at the bed side of the patient the homoeopathic physician is unmindful of this future science. His sole enquiry is after the symptoms, because the symptoms alone determine his choice of the remedy,
and upon the fulness and accuracy with which these are noted, rests
the entire management of the cure. All therefore depends upon the
correct examination of the patient, but not upon any possible opinions
concerning the nature and essence of the disease, nor upon learned
views concerning its concealed seat. The symptoms must be arranged indeed, with science and skill, in wich the genuine experimental propositions of the old semiotics and special pathology are of great
utility; but this admits not of comparison with the mode of procedure
hitherto adopted in medicine, wherein general experience, or hypothesis only, determined the choice of remedies. Hence the examination
of the patient according to Hahnemann's directions, is an affair of
no little difficulty even to the most learned and practised physician,


