
11

disturbed, impure and inconclusive, affording but little assistance to
Hahnemann in his exceedingly pure and simple.observations. He was
obliged, therefore, to institute a new set of experiments, with medicines generally, upon persons in health, but he had very few to aid him
in these investigations. Indefatigably, liowever, did he prosecute
them, and with admirable assiduity was this arduous path pursued by
him for fifteen years, when he published to the world as the first
fruits of his great labour, his Fragmenta de viribus Medicamentorum
positivis. This work was answered either by indifference or downright ridicule. In short, it happened to him in Germany as it did to
the inventor of the Steam-boat, in North America, when he first submitted his boat to the ordeal of an experiment. But Hahnemann
was as little confounded as was Fulton. For it is indicative of great
minds undauntedly to prosecute a noble design, in defiance of the
whole world; the great idea becomes, as it were, an element of their
souls. And history teaches us, that though men of exalted views have
sometimes failed, in the prosecution of magnificent undertakings, yet
the greatest spirits always achieve the victory, and bear away the
palm. Hahnemann who now stands forth as conqueror, at the time
to which we allude, was obliged to witness his well-merited literary
fame suffer a temporary eclipse, by reason of his new discoveries, and
painstaking investigations; nay, in consequence of his unremitted application to.scientific pursuits, to feel his station in society exceedingly
embarrassed. But more convinced from day to day of the beneficial
tendency of his enquiries, nothing deterred him from the prosecution
of them, even at the greatest temporal hazards.
One of the first observations which Hahnemann made during these
new investigations was, that children who had been poisoned by the
berries of Belladonna, (an accident of frequent occurrence in Germany,) were sometimes attacked by an eruption of the skin, resembling
that of scarlet fever; and that the same Belladonna, when given as a
remedy in scarlet fever, cured the disease, and likewise afforded protection to healthy children against its attacks: Hahneman lost no
time in laying these facts before the public, in order that physicians
might be enabled speedily to quell the ravages of the scarlet epidemic,
which was at that time prevalent in Germany. But his instructions
were either badly followed and misconstrued, or rejected with derision
and contempt. Subsequently, however, not a few medical men of
high reputation in Germany, established the curative virtues of Belladonna, in genuine scarlet fever, yet they denied that the medicine
could of itself produce any thing similar; but others have, on the contrary, observed that it was capable of producing an artificial scarlet
fever, as has been noticed by several German physicians, as well as
by Jolly, in France,* but denied to it the property of curing the genuine disease. Yet all these testimonies in its favour, did not bring the
medicine into general repute.
To Hahnemann, who meanwhile pursued the even tenor of his way,
this remedy afforded an opportunity for one of the greatest and
* Nouvelle Bibliotheque Medicale, July, 1828.


