
TO THE MEMBERS OF THE HAHNEMANNEAN SOCIETY:

GENTLEMEN,
The Hahnemnannean Society has conferred upon me the honorable
task of delivering at its meeting a short exposition of the Homcepathic
doctrine of Medicine. I know not that I can better fulfil the duty
assigned me, than by an historical developement of the subject, where-.
by we may be able to trace it from its origin down to the present day.
He to whom the Hahnemannean System of Medicine is new, and
who is at once brought to survey it as a whole, must be struck by its
peculiarities. Indeed it differs so extraordinarily from any to-which
e has hitherto been accustomed, that at the first glance he would be
prone to regard it with distrust; while at the same time, its colossal
dimensions, the monstrous -co6iPass.of its fundamental principles wear
a discouraging aspect. It.s, therefore pardonable that many, even
enlightened and reflecting men, because they had no opportunity of
gradually acquiring an intimate acquaintance with its doctrines, and
of becoming familiarized with its spirit, or because they did not take
the pains, by experimental enquiry, carefully, to examine its foundaStion, which is reared on experiment alone; it is pardonable if these iegarded the new doctrine as nothing more than one of the many effusions of learned revery, or as owing its origin to a love of system
making; or at most, admitted that there might indeed be some benefit
derived from it, but that it would be an excess of partiality to suppose
it applicable to disease generally.                             c
But amid all the opinions set up.against the experience of Hahnemann, his person, at least, ought to have been spared. He who had
himself never assumed an offensive attitude, and the truth of whose
doctrines only could with propriety be combated, ought to have been  -.
treated with due respect, which I regret to say, he did not receive at
the hands of some of the physicians of Germany. For previously to
his appearance as the reformer of medicine, he had been known and
esteemed as one of the most learned, accomplished and meritorious
physicians in Geriiany. Distinguished for his acquisition in philoogical learning, possessing a comprehensive acquaintance with the  V
natural sciences, and particularly with chemistry, his reading through
the whole range of medical literature was extensive, and in every respect he had acquired a thorough medical education.
After he had laid. the. foundation of his education at one of the most
considerable schools of classical literature, Afra, near Meissen, which
afterwards led him to a familiarity with the writings of the Greek and
Roman physicians, and had studied at several of the German univer.
sities, he went to Transylvania in the capacity of physician and librarian to a nobleman. Here he had an opportunity of cultivating an
acquaintance with the works of the Arabian physicians, and the medical literature of the middle ages. During his residence as practising physician, subsequently at Dresden and Leipzig, he availed
himself of the extensive libraries at those places, and his endeavours
were incessant there to add to the stores of his knowledge in every
particular. Nor were his extraordinary talents, which in riper years


