
7

made in isolated cases, the darkness which rested over medicine as a
whole, nevertheless, remained still the same. Hahnemann went so far
after eight years practice, as to be upon the point of abandoning it
wholly. He would not, he said, treat diseases, the nature of which was
yet unfathomable, and therefore could afford no certain indication in
their treatment, whose causes could but seldom be discovered, and
which still more rarely pointed out their appropriate remedies. He
became too conscientious to administer to the patient a remedy which
he could not in advance know to be strictly adapted to the case. In
a given disease what was it which gave the certain information-that
out of the numerous remedies recommended, this or that is the one
indicated?
But, said Hahnemann, I had several children, and when from time
to time they were visited by serious sickness, I was forced to witness
their sufferings without possessing the ability, with certainty, of administering to their relief. As it had been a matter of conscience with
him to relinquish the practice of medicine, because of its incertainty-was it a duty less imperative, that he should strive to attain to
certainty? and as he felt the insufficiency of the healing art the most
painfully at the sick bed of his children, he could not resist the belief
that there must be solid principles of universal validity, but that they
were only not yet discovered-that order must be brought out of the
confusion hitherto abounding if we but faithfully examine and unrestrainedly observe nature, and interrogate her without the intrusion of
our own hypothesis, and without moulding the result according to
our own preconceived opinions.
At this time a ray of light penetrated his mind, and the dawn of
a new day of Medicine broke forth. It was in the year 1790, whilst
he was engaged in the translation of Cullen's Materia Medica, at the
article cinchona. Hahnemann was thirty-five years of age when these
new views first attracted his attention.
Peruvian bark had already for a long time been recognised as a specific remedy in Intermittent Fevers, and a discussion long existed
among physicians why and how it properly affected the cure, a subject, however, upon which they were by no means unanimous. Hahnemann's enquiries were mainly directed to ascertain, in what species of
intermittent fever it was peculiarly salutary; for he had clearly perceived that while it had been effectual in some cases, in others it completely failed; nay, not unfrequently, in spite of every precaution, it had
been more prejudicial to the patient than the fever itself. While he endeavoured to ascertain precisely in what species of fever, and in what
determinate forms of it the remedy was actually salutary, he closely
observed all the cases which it had cured, and, indeed, more closely
and circumstantially than he had hitherto been accustomed to think
neeessary. During the translation of Cullen's Materia Medica, before
alluded to, he was reminded that the bark on being administered to persons in health, or those untouched by fever, sometimes produced a febrile condition of an intermittent character. But the symptoms of this
condition were similar, in a remarkable degree, to the symptoms of that
S."  i.!


