
12

most wonderful discoveries which the mind of man has ever made:
namely, that of Developing the medicinal virtue of Medicines, (Potenzirung der Heilmittel.)  This is the same, which, under the name of
Dilutions-and of the Millionth and Billionth of a dose, has become
so exceedingly obnoxious, and will be likely to remain so, as long as
men obstinately doubt, rather than resort to experiment to investigate the matter, and because it is the easiest of all things to laugh at
and hold it up to derision-to call it necromancy, mysticism, absurdity, charlatanerie and imagination, is far easier than to make experiments.
Hahnemann supposing that Belladonna, because it had the property of producing an eruption similar to that of scarlet fever, would
also cure this disease, resolved to make trials with the remedy. He
gave it in very minute doses, according to the prevailing views, viz.:
in the -, -4, A of a grain of the extract, or a single drop of the juice.
The result was salutary in many cases, but not unfrequently instead
of the cure, he observed an aggravation of all the symptoms of the
complaint. This was what might naturally be expected. The remedy, which in the healthy subject was capable of producing something
similar to this disease, when administered to patients who were affected in a manner so entirely analogous, in whom it operated more especially upon the diseased organs, and so entirely similar to the disease,
must necessarily increase the latter, even if the patient were endowed
with but a moderate degree of sensibility. To this augmentation of
symptoms, however, there commonly succeeded a rapid crisis and
perfect recovery; yet it sometimes proved so troublesome, as to call
for the employment of antidotes. This almost constant aggravation
of the disease, by the remedies which were chosen according to the
new law, threatened to embarrass very much their trial, if not to
render it wholly impracticable. To avoid these disagreeable results,
Hahnemann adopted the most simple and natural expedient, viz. that
of lessening the dose. He united one grain of the extract of Belladonna with a hundred drops of the spirits of wine. Of this mixture,
one drop (which of course contained I- part of a grain) he afterwards gave, in the suitable cases, for a dose. But to his astonishment
he observed that this drop acted too forcibly. He now made the great
stride which none had done previously to him; he took a hundred drops
of spirits of wine, added to them one drop, which contained T-f- of a
grain of the medicine, shook them together, and, now had in every
drop of the new mixture, therefore, the -~-0,  part of a grain. If the
IT of a grain was quite an unusual dose, Hahnemann went far beyond
the limits of previous experience in his second operation, viz. that of
administering the dose to the,o-0 part of a grain. When he gave
one drop of this second preparation in a case adapted to the remedy,
he expected a very slight and inconsiderable effect. In the great majority of cases, indeed, a more rapid cure followed it than in the case
of the preceding preparation, but to his great astonishment, much more
frequently-the same impetuous aggravation of symptoms. In short,
it was not to be mistaken: the virtue of the medicine had by no means
been taken away in these high dilutions. How striking soever this
phenomenon was in itself, and however wonderful and strange it must
have appeared to Hahnemann, it had, nevertheless, been indisputably


