
22

the posture during sleep; even the dreams and the kind of them, whether of falling, of flying, of fire, of noises, of hunger, of motion, of seeing frightful objects, &amp;c., all belong to the image of the disease, and
any one of which, may not unfrequently be the deciding symptom. In
every case of disease also, the symptoms proper to any particular
organ, whether these symptoms be chronic or of shorter duration
must be designated. Hahnemann was the first physician who recognized it as indispensable in every disease, to regard man as a whole.
The fact may scarcely be credited, but it does not appear that this
method had ever occurred to any other physician before Hahnemann.
It had always been deemed sufficient to know the symptoms which
were manifested by the organs particularly affected, or by dependent
organs and these were the symptoms which were supposed to belong
to the existing disease, while all others were foreign to it. As, however, man has but one nervous system, and is as quickly susceptible
of impressions on the small toe, as on the eye, and moves as quickly
the former as the latter, at pleasure, as the blood streams through
the whole body at every pulsation of the heart, no part can become
disordered without affecting the system at large, and a part has an
influence upon the whole as the whole has upon a part.
Hahnemann absolutely requires the comprehension of all the morbid symptoms of every patient, whether they be connected or not, or
whether the connection can or cannot be pathologically pointed out:
First, because he regards the human system as integral, the parts of
which, as such, are not exclusively affected, but whose diseases are
always general, and must be always cured by the vital forces directed
against them. Secondly, because a knowledge of all the symptoms is
necessary, as well as of the constitution and temper of mind, in order
that among the many remedies the most suitable may be selected.
This may be illustrated by a small example: Suppose a patient came
under treatment for incipient amaurosis. Few physicians would be
likely to regard, as of any importance, a slight eruption on the forehead occuring on the same patient, and still fewer a small wart of long
standing upon the right cheek-nor would their attention be directed
to a weakness of the right ankle, nor proneness of the same to frequent
sprains. If, besides, the patient were affected with borborygmi, few
certainly would think of connecting with amaurosis these various
symptoms, which are all, nevertheless, deviations from a healthy condition; but Hahnemann requires this union as absolutely necessary.
When a morbid symptom is present in the body he requires to know
on which side it is seated. Occasion is hereby given in the present
case, to find a new symptom, which otherwise would not have been
perceived, namely, that it is the right side which principally suffers.
Unmindful of internal connections between the symptoms whether
they subsist or not, regardless whether they be unfolded in a very
interesting manner, as they might be, or not, the morbid symptoms
are to be marshalled according to their relative value, and the same
rank must obtain among the medicinal symptoms of the remedy, as
among the symptoms of the disease, and should bear a strict correspondence in grade as well as similarity, to those of the latter. Regard
being paid to the patient's mental constitution and temper, and especially to the psoric origin of the disease, to his previous diseases, and re

