
the occasion, from thegreat observer Sydenham, to the energetic Crueger Hannsen,* the Ulrick de Hutten of our days, declare to us but
too well, that the greatest uncertainty reigns over the noble art
wherein the greatest certainty is desirable, that it does not,,in fact, accomplish what, after so many worthy endeavours for its advancement
might have been reasonably expected from it. Especially uncertain
was the knowledge of remedies. Herein implicit reliance was placed
upon traditions, partly derived from antiquity, and partly from the
common people. By means of numerous hypothesis endeavours were
made, it is true, to give to those crude and empirical materials something like a scientific shape, but it was at all times liable to changes
adapted to the views of succeeding speculators.  It was almost an
invariable rule to unite several remedies together into one mass, the
combination being supposed, on hypothetical grounds, to be the preferable mode of exhibition, and as long as this process was observed
in their preparation, no genuine experience could be acquired concerning the effect of individual or isolated remedies. To the quiet p
empiric, who would only cure according to modes recommended by
experience, nothing at length remained but cathartics, emetics, sudorifics, rubefacients, opium, mercury-par excellence, a kind of universal remedy--and finally venaesection, that powerful means to
weaken disease by weakening the strength of the patient. The sudden
silencing of symptoms after blood letting, calomel or opium was considered a cure, because the apt employment of these remedies was then
the best resource known to the physician, and without them he could
effect nothing. When, however the symptoms were not to be silenced
or removed by these remedies, when no specific remedies were known,
or had failed of procuring relief, viz. in the most violent diseases-the
resources of the most able physician were at an end.  In England
more particularly, the example of Sydenham was pursued, in relying
upon individual and collective experience, and in the avoidance of discussion; but in Germany theories concerning the nature of diseases
and of remedies were more the objects of attention, and, as respects
the latter particularly, the most contradictory opinions were entertained.  While, for instance, a remedy was extolled by one beyond
measure, another entirely rejected it; while one appealed to a series
of cures in proof of its virtues, another would tell you that in his hands
it had utterly failed. In many cases of disease, which, by no means
could be pronounced absolutely incurable, every imaginable remedy
only aggravated the complaint; in others the physician was sometimes
surprized with a cure as unexpected as it was inexplicable. Amid
the uncertainty of these discussions nothing could be decided by an
appeal to such authorities; opinions concerning the nature and essence
of medicines were then, and still remain to be, mere matter of opinion, ever various and ever discrepant; nor were clinical experiments
more decisive, for diseases as well as the constitution of the patient
are subject to manifold diversities.
The more Hahnemann regarded these facts, and when he saw how
precarious were the principles of the healing art, the more was he driven
to deep and serious reflection. He observed that medicine had deviated
from the true path since the time of Galen, that physicians had not like
* Curbilder.


