
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.

57

or more, from a blind attachment to the notions they cherish,
as from a deficiency of probability or proof in favour-of the
doctrines they reject. Hard-headed scepticism of this, the
ordinary quality, utterly unfits men for philosophical and
scientific investigations on a subject to which they are opposed. If it be beset with sources of mistake, the biassed
mind of the sceptic can see nothing but these; lays hold of
them with avidity, and delights itself in the sapient conviction that, because there are some things fallacious in the subject of its hasty and partial study, there can be nothing that
is true.  If Jenner had started on his researches regarding
vaccination with the antipathies of a hard-headed sceptic,
wedded to a foregone conclusion, as all hard-headed sceptics
are, his studies might easily have issued in a deliberate refutation of the popular supposition, in his neighbourhood, that
cow-pox was a protection against small-pox; and the world
might yet have wanted the blessing of his discovery. As it
was, with all his determination to know the truth, he almost
yielded before the sources of fallacy he had to encounter.
How, speedily would a hard-headed sceptic,-whether an Ingenhouz, or a Rowley,-have closed his inquiries on the subject, when he had ascertained that the cow milkers often contracted sores on their hands in the course of their occupation,
and were not, therefore, exempt from small-pox. What a
clear proof that all the whispers to the contrary were old
women's fables! What truly sceptical spirit could want
more satisfactory evidence? But Jenner's head having been
made of penetrable stuff,-not yet become indurated and sapless by the seasoning processes.of scepticism,-admitted the
idea that, though the circumstances in question were undeniably true, they might not constitute the whole truth. He
persevered in his researches, and obtained a glorious reward
of his labour.
Scepticism is much more a matter of feeling than of judgment; and there is ample reason for believing that the general scepticism of the profession regarding Homoeopathy is owing far more to a dislike of it than to any convictions of the
understanding at variance with its pretensions. In almost
utter.ignorance of its principles and practice, many, no doubt,
like yourself, think the general adoption of it would be " very
unfqrtunate for medicine," and therefore, hate it with all the
sincerity of hard-headed scepticism, as the supposed enemy
of their favourite " phantom."  And yet it is this temper
which men ridiculously mistako for the philosophic-for that
which preserves the mind neutral in the investigation of cbn

