
56

PROFESSOR HENDERSON'S

the acute cases were cured without the effusion of blood, the
pains of purgation, or the miseries of nausea and blistering,
and that not a few of the chronic cases had resisted the rules
of ordinary medicine, though applied, and in the most serious
instances too, by some of the wisest practitioners of your art.
I know no reason for presuming that the rules of ordinary
medicine in other hands could have effected what it could not
in theirs; though I feel very certain, that if any ordinary
practitioner had had the opportunity of trying, and had succeeded, he would have regarded the cases as both very satisfactory, and his treatment very superior to that which had
failed. Since you think that the medicines employed in the
cases I have published, deserve no credit for the success, a
way is open for you to place the pretensions of Homeopathy
on their proper footing. Produce a hundred and twenty-two
cases of the same kind, treated by your bread pills, (farina
30,) and the experiment will be complete. You have already
endeavoured to prove that that favourite remedy of yours
was as useful in an epidemic diarrhoea of considerable
violence, as " a course of orthodox physic." It was unnecessary to make any argumentative exertion to prove that it
was so, for all Homomopaths, (and your'argument is specially addressed to them,) will heartily concur in your conclusion, and believe, moreover, with you, that it would be far
better for mankind if the farina practice were more generally
adopted in preference to orthodox physic.
I have given one half of an experiment, give you the other.
It can cost you no other difficulty than keeping notes of your
cases; you can have no scruples, founded on the advantages
of the rules of ordinary physic, to overcome, considering that
the amount of success in my cases was, in your estimation,
very satisfactory, though by means which yoti deem no better than doses of flour. Such is your assertion in favour of
your crumbs, and the onus probandi on that point lies with
you. Bread pills seem to be one of your recognised methods of treatment; you have shown them to be preferable
to orthodox physic, show them next to be preferable, or
equal to Homoeopathy, in the same kind and number of cases
as I have published; and not only will your professional sagacity be magnified, but'you may aspire to the thanks of
the agricultural interest, at present so much in need of
consolation.
Hard-headed scepticism and credulity go hand in hand.
Those who are sceptical on one subject, are very easily satisfied on another; and their unbelief arises quite as much,


