
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.

59

would have been able to discover the rules by which one
shift or another was selected, as thus:First,-That when cases recovered, promptly, from chronic
diseases that had resisted the rules of orthodox treatment,
continued down to the time when the Homceopathic was
adopted, the results must be ascribed to the lucky cessation
from orthodoxy.
Second,-That when cases recovered, promptly, from chronic diseases that had not been under orthodox treatment for a
long time before the commencement of the Homceopathic,
the results must be ascribed to the power of imagination, or
the accidental and spontaneous cessation of the diseases.
Third,-That when the persons affected were too young to
be the likely subjects of this power, the result must be ascribed only to the spontaneous cessation of their diseases.
Referring your readers to the work itself for the particulars which you have withheld, I have no hesitation in affirming that no candid and experienced man can peruse the cases
attentively and say, \vith sincerity, that he has no doubt that
the results are adequately accounted for under one or other
of these three heads. This is the utmost that I expected the
narration of the cases to accomplish; and this, I am satisfied,
it is fitted to accomplish. I did not dare to hope that it
would overcome the strong prejudices of the hard-headed,
or silence the opposition of the feeble-minded and malignant.
These are conquests which no record of cases can ever
achieve.
To those who do not belong to this corps of invincibles I
would suggest the propriety of calculating the probability of
the causes you assign for the recoveries under Homceopathy.
In regard to one of these causes, the coincidence of recovery
and the use of the Homoeopathic remedies, some approach
to a mathematical estimate of probability may be obtained;
as, for example, a disease having lasted, without improvement, for six, eight, twelve, twenty-four, or two hundred
months, and having no ascertained natural limits, what are
the chances of its ceasing of itself in one, two, four, or six
weeks, after a certain dayl With every instance, in a given
number of unselected cases, in which the amendment commences shortly after that day, (on which a particular practice
has been commenced,) the probability lessens of its being
due to chance; until, if nine-tenths of the cases do so amend
and recover, no probability is left that chance can account
for the results. As to the influence of imagination in produc

