
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.                7
be considered new-new absolutely, or new in their form,
mode of administration, and principle of action-we would, have hardly expected the old relations of curability and inScurability exactly preserved. Does not this fact, common to
tBoth, seem to point to a community of power, or want of
Power, in the two classes of agents, rather than to a speclTlity of action and potency in one?"-P. 244. And so determined are you to make out your point against the old
system, as possessing little, if any, potency as a system of
curing, that you behave very liberally (as your Allopathic
friends will think) to the recorded successes of Homaeopathy; but with the purpose of bringing both the old and new
systems to the level of your power of nature.
"These tables, (Fleischmann's Homceopathic tables, for
instance, substantiate this momentous fact, that all our ordinary curable diseases are cured in a fair proportion, under
the Homceopathic method of treatment. Not merely d6 we
see thus cured all the slighter diseases, whether acute or
chronic, which most men of experience know to be readily
susceptible of cure under every variety of treatment, and
under no treatment at all; but even all the severer and more
dangerous diseases, which most physicians, of whatever
school, have been accustomed to consider as not only needing the interposition of art to assist nature in bringing them
to a favourable and speedy termination, but demanding the
employment of prompt and strong measures to prevent a
fatal issue in a considerable proportion of cases. And such
is the nature of the premises, that there can hardly be any
mistake as to the justness of the inference. Dr. Fleischmann
is a regular, well-educated physician, as capable of forming a
true diagnosis as other practitioners, and he is considered
by those who know him as a man of honour and respectability, and incapable of attesting a falsehood. We cannot,
therefore, refuse to admit the accuracy of his statements as
to matters of fact; or, at least, to admit them with that
liberal subtraction from the favourable side of the equation,
which is required in the case of all statements made by the
disciples and advocates of new doctrines. Even after this
rectification, we see enough that remains to justify the inference above deduced. No candid physician, looking at the
original report, or at the small part of it which we have
extracted, will hesitate to acknowledge that the results there
set forth would have been considered by him as satisfactory,
if they had occurred in his own practice. The amount of
deaths in the fevers and eruptive diseases is certainly below


