
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.

23

the deliberate and oft-repeated experiments of Hahnemann
and his friends.
"No unprejudiced person," you affirm, " who examines
these records ever so superficially, can for a moment believe
that one-half, or one-tenth of the symptoms recorded, were,
or could be, produced by the medicaments swallowed."P. 234. Then Hahnemann and his friends have told falsehoods regarding the more severe symptoms, and recorded
many that were trivial and accidental.
I will not accuse you of making the imputation of falsehood, for you have already allowed the integrity of Hahnemann. But that Hahnemann did err in recording trivial
occurrences among the symptoms that followved the taking of
the medicines, no Homceopathist denies; nay, the provers in
Vienna, who "have expressed, their admiration," &amp;c., proclaim the fact, and reject many of these symptoms. But
does his error in the smallest degree effect the practical use of
his provings-supposing, for a moment, the Homceopathic
principle to be correct, that regulates the selection of a remedy? No, certainly. That principle requires that the symptoms of the disease to be treated, should find in the provings
of the remedy, phenomena that correspond with them-with
all of them if possible, with the chief and most characteristic of them at least. It matters nothing that there should be
in the proving many more, truly medicinal, phenomena than
there are symptoms in the disease; and, of course, it matters
as little that there should be as many more trivial jottings,
that neither correspond with the disease, nor are due to the
medicine. Hahnemann himself anticipated your objection,
but he thought it best to err on the safe side,-to note down
phenomena that might be accidental and unimportant, rather
than run the risk of excluding what might be of consequence.
If the line must be drawn nicely between the genuine and the
false phenomena, who was to decide on the precise qualifications that entitled a symptom to be retained, or marked it for
oblivion? Surely not the first prover,-nor the first few
provers. It must be the prerogative of the many, who, having summed up their own experiments and those of their
predecessors, thus ascertain what bears the characters of constancy and genuineness, and what seems to be inconstant and
accidental. The risk in all provings is rather from genuine
symptoms being excluded, than from accidental onies being
admitted. At least the Homoeopathist feels so, who knows
of what importance sometimes are seemingly inconsiderable
particulars.


