
LETTER TO DR. PORBES.

13

though females are much less liable to the disease. The
number of the latter that occurred among the cases of
Pleischmann and Reiss is not mentioned. But it is certain
that the accommodation for females in Fleischmann's hospital is such, that no cases of pneumonia among them were
more likely to be excluded than among the males; and there
is no reason to suppose that females are less liable to pneumonia in Vienna than in Paris. In the account given of a
small number of cases treated by Skoda in an Allopathic
hospital in Vienna, the proportion of females is noted-there
were nine, to twenty males. Among the five hundred and
thirty-one cases that occurred in Paris, the proportion of the
sexes is stated by some of the physicians; and we find that
of three hundred and fifty-one cases thus classified, only
seventy were females; so that no considerable proportion
of the immense general mortality could have been due to
that source.
It does not appear that any deduction should be made
from the success on the Homoeopathic side, on the ground
that the statements come from the partisans of a particular
system, which ought not to be equally made from the alleged
success on the other side; for the several physicians, on
whose authority the latter is given, were contending, some of
them acrimoniously, for the superiority of their respective
measures of treatment.
It is curious that while you eschew "any close comparison" of Fleischmann's tables with those of Allopathic physicians, on the ground of an absence of sufficient detail, no
statement that can tell in favour of your own views, is too
vague and meagre to be admitted in evidence. One might
almost suspect, therefore, that, had a close comparison been
likely to show Homoeopathy to disadvantage, it would not
have been so scrupulously avoided. You quote Grisolle's
account of the expectant practice, or no practice, of Biett and
Magendie, with the purpose of putting that on a footing
with Homoeopathy in its claims to suffrage. And yet, while
the Homoeopathic records are distinct as to the number of
cases that were treated, and the mortality among them, in
hard statistical figures, neither the one nor the other is mentioned of the cases that were left by those physicians to take
their own course. Biett's mortality is said, merely, to have
beetn" very inconsiderable" during the year that he treated
his patients with only emollient drinks and cataplasms. Magendie'l is not mentioned at all; the only information we
have regarding his treatment of pneumonia being, that C he


