
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.

55

authority among your best writers on Materia Medica; and
he is almost the only physician, as he certainly was the first
of the old school, who followed the example of Hahnemann
in proving medicines on the healthy body. You will not,
therefore, despise his opinion on the doses that ought to be
given, when medicines are employed Homceopathically.," Medicines operate most powerfully upon the sick when the symptoms correspond with those of the disease.  A very small quantity of
medicinal arnica will produce a violent effect upon persons who have an
irritable state of aesophagus and stomach. Mercurial preparations have,
in very small doses, given rise to pains and loose stools when administered in an inflammatory state of the intestines. * * * Yet why should
I occupy time in adducing more examples of a similar operation of medicines, since it is in the very nature of the thing that a medicine must produce a greater effect when it is applied to a body already suffering under
an affection similar to that which the medicine itself is capable of producing." (P. 16.)
In the last number but one of your review you had occasion to lament the loss of a physician who took a Homceopathic remedy in Allopathic doses. " The case," you say,
" may be a most useful warning, and speaks more powerfully than any reasoning as to the absolute necessity of caution in the use of aconite," Let us hope it will be so. Had
the unfortunate gentleman taken the medicine in the Homoeopathic doses, he would have experienced all the good effects
it was capable of affording, and he might yet have been
alive. In the work which is reviewed in that article, there
are several cases mentioned in which patients narrowly escaped destruction from the same medicine, by the instructions
of the physician having been misunderstood. And thus it is
that tie discovery of a medicine which justly entitles Hahnemann to a rank among the greatest benefactors of mankind,
is made to peril or destroy human life-to leave it at the discretion of careless or stupid attendants, by the doggedness of
practitioners who sneer at his advice, for its safe and efficacious employment.
On your criticism of the cases which I have published I
have little to say. You affirm that the recoveries are all due
either to nature or imagination, while you admit "that the
amount of success obtained by Dr. Henderson in the treatment of his cases, would have been considered by ourselves
as very satisfactory, had we been treating the same cases according to the rules of ordinary medicine." No doubt they
would, but why not consider them a great deal more satisfactory than those rules can enable you to effect, seeing that


