
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.

51

ence, that the so-called anti-psoric medicines produced a more
lasting benefit to the constitution than many other medicines.
A much greater range of observation than one man can overtake in a lifetime would have been necessary to have warranted him in saying more. His psoric hypothesis probably
appeared to him sound enough to supply the deficiency of
actual observation.
It is of some consequence to notice one peculiarity of
Hahnemann's psoric hypothesis which you seem to have
misapprehended. You make it appear as if he affirmed that
when a chronic disease is not treated anti-psorically and Homceopathically, it must infallibly relapse, and get worse, until
it ends in death. He says nothing of the kind. So comprehensive is his psorip hypothesis that it makes chronic diseases,
with few exceptions, to be of one family,-the offspring of
the same blood. Hence, though one chronic disease, in the
common acceptation of the term, may be perfectly and permanently removed, yet if another, though totally different
in its symptoms should at any time subsequently appear,
Hahnemann would have called it merely a different form of
the same radical distemper, of the same chronic disease. So
that if a man who once had some chronic disorder of his
bowels, should, twenty years after it was removed, become
affected with palsy, in Hahnemann's opinion it would have
been the old disease recurring in a new form, either because
the constitutional psora had not been cured along with the
former illness, or because the taint had been contracted anew.
This affords an explanation of what he means by chronic
diseases occurring in a worse and worse form as age advances; and the fact that they very often do so, you will
hardly deny, although you may reasonably demur to the
doctrine that would make them all essentially the same,
however dissimilar in their symptoms; and their occurrence
to depend on the one constitutional taint having been uncured. You are, doubtless, sufficiently aware that it is too
commonly the characteristic of even the same chronic disease
to go on from year to year gradually gaining strength, and
becoming less and less amenable to treatment, until it eventually ends in death. This unfortunate course is not witnessed
only under what Hahnemann would have termed improper
Homoeopathic treatment. It is common enough under Allopathy, and every other 4' pathy," despite of anti-psorics. At
the same time, my conviction is, that Homceopathy can do
more for many such chronic complaints than any other treatment can,--and it may be, that the " anti-psorics are the most
useful of the Homoeopathic means.


