
44

PROFESSOR HENDERSON'S

in the mortar, and the four minutes' scraping to detach the
powder from the instruments, preparatory to renewed friction, by having found these preferable to any other number
of minutes. The precise directions given by him for the
preparation of the medicines, is universally known by Homoeopaths, and might have been easily ascertained by you,
to have for their object a uniformity of medicinal power in
the several attenuations, by whomsoever manufactured. Indeed, within fifteen lines of the place where your translation
of his directions stops, he says as much. He there lays
down additional rules for carrying on the attenuations to the
higher degrees, and he does so expressly, " in order to institute some uniformity in the preparation," &amp;c. Quite enough
to have made it evident to any unprejudiced person, not
eager to put a disparaging construction on his proceedings,
that all his directions were for the same purpose, and yet you
actually say, " we cannot find in Hahnemann's writings any
explanation of or reason for the precise and peculiar mode
and amount of the manipulations prescribed."-P. 237.
The explanation and the reason, notwithstanding, lie in the
very pages you must have read; and of all the misstatements
into which you have fallen in the coiurse of your article,
none surprises me more than this. Hahnemann states in
the plainest language, that he believes the powers of all remedies to be exalted by trituration, (distinct from mere subdivision;) and though experience has proved that such is not
the fact, that belief of his, and the desire that the preparations everywhere should be made of a uniform potency, are
the very obvious explanation and reason for the precise and
peculiar mode and amount of the manipulations, and ought
to have protected him from the sneer about juggling tricks,
and magical ceremonies.
Homceopathists, with few exceptions, do not concur with
him in thinking that medicines acquire any such increase of
power by trituration besides what is due to mere minuteness
of division. They admit, however, that in chronic diseases
the higher attenuations sometimes act better than the lower
as remedies, either because the fineness of the division of the
particles, or the smallness of the dose, is more suitable to the
exigencies of particular cases.
Then as to the " exactly one hour, and not one minute
more or less," to which you remark that the frictions and
scrapings are precisely limited, I confess that I felt with you
on the point,-that it was very ridiculous; and, besides, that
Homceopathy must have an intense vitality indeed, nothing


