
16'

PROFESSOR HENDERSON'S

cases of the latter sort, it had completely ceased after the first
day of treatment.
2. In the eleven, the mean duration of the characteristic
expectoration was ten days.
In fifty cases bled in the first stage, the mean was seven
days. In one hundred and eighty-two bled in the second
stage, it was nine days;
In thirty-five cases treated with tartar emetic, the state of
this symptom was noted; and in seventeen it existed in the
highest degree; and in them the expectoration was rendered
more or less colourless in twenty-four hours after the treatment was commenced.
In the eleven, the phenomena of auscultation did not begin to decrease till the endc of the second week, and persisted
still in various degrees till between the twenty-second and
thirtieth days.
In the cases bled within the first four days of the disease,
the phenomena began to decrease between the sixth and
seventh days. In those bled later, the mean of the commencement of the decrease was the tenth day.
In the forty-four cases treated by tartar emetic, the phenomena began to decrease in thirty-six, between the end of
the first and the fourth days of the treatment.
So much for the course of slight cases left almost to nature, compared with that of severe cases treated by the ordinary means. I think that you will feel yourself in a dilemma
when I present to you the plain inferences deducible from
those facts, and your account of the course and duration of
cases treated Homaeopathically. You admit, on the competent testimony of a physician, (not a Homoeopath,) who
attended Dr. Fleischmann's wards for three months, and
watched the progress of several cases of pneumonia, through
the different stages of congestion, hepatization, and resolution, up to a perfect cure, that this result occurred "within
a period of time which would have appeared short upon the
most energetic treatment of Allopathy."-P. 243. Now,
the energetic treatment of Allopathy appears, beyond all
question, as Grisolle's narrative proves, to cure pneumonia
within a period of time much shorter than the power of unassisted nature can do. What is then the demonstration
which follows? Let us see if you have not given us a fine
specimen of the reductio ad absurdum.
Energetic treatment cures pneumonia much sooner than
no treatment at all. Homceopathy cures pneumonia in as
short a time as energetic treatment; ergo, Homceopathy


