
60

PROFESSOR HENDERSON'S

ing the benefits in the cases to which I advert, I think that
reasons satisfactory to all but the invincibles can be shown
for its absence in the majority of them, while it remains only
as a presumption or possibility in the others. Thus, in some
cases the coincidences occur in persons who are too young
for the work of fancy; in some, the persons affected have no
notion of the marvellous nature of their physic, and are
very plainly incapable of being moved by the knowledge if
it were imparted to them; in some there is a total want of
expectation of any result whatever; and in some the remedies given are not at first correctly chosen, according to the
rules of the practice, and produce no effect; but when afterwards they are better selected the good effects follow. These,
however, are particulars which can be properly estimated
only by the man who practically examines, and experiments
for himself. No printed records and statements can impress
them on the reader as they impress themselves on the practitioner, and therefore it is that documentary evidence can
never settle the question in all its divisions.
But why is the subject left to be settled in any measure by
documentary evidence? If the practice of Hommeopathy
have grown to the vast extent which you allow, all over
Europe and America-has learned, experienced, and honest
men among its practitioners-is so successful as you admit in
the treatment of acute, as well as chronic, diseases, and so
forth, that you "can refrain no longer" frori noticing it,-if
". as an established form of practical medicine, and as a great
fact in the history of our art," (p. 239,) you are obliged
nolentes volentes to consider Homoeopathy,-why should you
restrict your consideration of it to documents, which cannot,
in regard to every particular, furnish conclusive evidence,
and omit to examine the practice in person, or to recommend
it to others? This is the only way of considering it that can
lead to a definite result on the general question. No man
will believe in Homoeopathy, in all its extent, on the testimony of those who have practised it, because testimony in
practical medicine is so easily evaded by the doubter; and
no man ought to disbelieve on the authority of those who
have not.
Some of my cases you object to as trivial. Now, apart
from the fact that a disease does not need to be deadly, or
even severe, in order to test the action of a remedy, the
objection has probably been founded on the very success of
the practice. Take, for instance, the cases of dysentery, and
others among the acute cases;-after the practice was begun


