
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.

43

If what I have said of the existing state of Homceopathy
shill convince you or your readers that, in giving Hahnemannism-that is, the theories, hypotheses, and practices,
without exception or modification, of the founder of the system-as the Homceopathy of the present day, you have
made a great mistake; it may be replied that you have, at
least, beat Hahnemann out of the field, and, to that extent,
have accomplished the purpose of your review. This would
be a mistake, however, quite as glaring as the other. For
anything that you have said to controvert his principles and
practices, they stand just where-they were before you engaged in the conflict. Not an argument, or.the shadow of
an argument, appears in your paper that touches a single
position of Hahnemann. Hahnemannism might, in every
particular, be received as truth itself, if no more could be
adduced against it than is contained in your attack upon it.
In proof of which assertion, I shall briefly notice the manner
in which you think you dispose of one' or two of its precepts
and doctrines, in addition to those I have already considered.
After detailing the manner in which Hahnemann recommended the medicines to be prepared for use, the triturations
and scrapings of the dry preparations, and the shakings of the
liquid attenuations, you say, " altogether, it must be admitted, that the whole complexion of the thing bears a much
closer resemblance to whatwe have heard or seen of magical
ceremonies and the tricks of conjurors, demonstrations for effect, and to produce an impression, than to any operation of a
scientific or bond fide character,"-a sentence which you
justify, because, " in the first place, it is manifestly impossible
for any human being, during the course of a long life, much
less in the course of a few years, to have performed a sufficient number of experiments, or made a sufficient number of
comparative trials, to enable him to state, with any degree
of certainty, that these particular manipulations, and none
others, were the exact and exclusive means to produce the desired effect. *  *  *  In the second place, it certainly has
a very suspicious look of a foregone conclusion, rather than
of a legitimate deduction from facts, that all the scrapings
and rubbings to which each remedy is subjected, in each single state of its transmigration, should occupy exactly one
hour, and not one minute more or less."  P. 238.
In reply to all this I remark, first, that Hahnemann nowhere
alleges that he had been led to adopt the six minutes' friction


