
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.

45

short of that which invaluable truth alone can give, to have
survived the unfortunate notions which Hahnemann has
tacked to it. Still, as I knew he was no pretender to magic,
no conjuror, and as I had had occasion to observe that you
were not an accurate historian of his proceedings, it occurred
to me that I might as well consult himself in regard to this
awkward particular. I did so, and, while my mind was immediately relieved regarding Hahnemann and his directions,
I acknowledge that I did feel a momentary uneasiness about
Dr. Forbes. Magic there may have been, nay, there must,
in the conversion of six sixes and five fours, (minutes,) into
" exactly one hour, and not one minute more or less."  But
who is the conjuror,--Hahnemann or you? I fear you must
plead guilty, as Hahnemann says nothing on the point, but
innocently leaves his arithmetical readers to find out that the
sum of the minutes he specifies for rubbing and scraping is
just fifty-six! which, it may be necessary to add, is four
minutes less than an hour,-that magical division of time
which you have selected for your commentary.
Hahnemann, it seems, is not very intelligible to you when
he speaks of as great an amount, but lower degree of medicinal power, being developed by some differences in the preparation. A knowledge of his doctrines would have prevented your difficulty. He thought friction and agitation
developed, or brought out, the latent virtues of medicine, so
that the same quantity of medicine might, according as it
was triturated or not, have its powers either partly latent or
fully developed. Here, also, he may be wrong, but his meaning is intelligible enough. And in one sense, he cannot be
held to be very palpably wrong, iwhen supported by the authority of Orfila, and Buchner, and Pereira. According to
their views of mercury in fine division, as compared with
mercury in a crude undivided state, a grain of the latter,
though it contained the same actual amount of power or capacity of action, would exert far less medicinal energy than
after having been finely divided by trituration with some
inert powder.
In all that you have said, then, on the manner in which
Hahnemann directs the medicines to be prepared, and of the
effects of that preparation, you have not succeeded in proving
him to be absurd; and if any of your readers thought that
you did, their opinion must have rested on your inadvertent
misstatement of the facts.
Lest it should be thought that the differences between
Hahnemann and his followers on the points just adverted to,


