
PROFESSOR HENDERSON'S

the ordinary proportion; but, for reasons already stated, no
conclusion favourable to Homceopathy can be thence deduced. It,seems, however, reasonable to infer that, even in
these cases, the new practice was not less favourable to the
cure than the ordinary practice. In all such cases, experienced
physicians have been long aware that the results, as to mortality, are nearly the same under all varieties of Allopathic
treatment. It would not surprise them, therefore, that a
treatment like that of Homaoopathy, which they may regard
as perfectly negative, should be fully as successful as their
own. But the results presented to us in the severer internal
inflammations, are certainly not such as most practical physicians would have expected to be obtained under the exclusive administration of a thousandth, a millionth, or a billionth part* of a grain of phosphorus, every two, three, or
five hours. It would be very unreasonable to believe that
out of three hundred cases of pneumonia, two hundred and
twenty-four cases of pleurisy, and one hundred and five
cases of peritonitis, (in all six hundred and twenty-nine
cases,) spread over a period of eight years, all the cases, except the fatal ones, (twenty-seven in number,) were slight,
and such as would have seemed to us hardly requiring treatment of any kind. In fact, according to all experience,
such could not be the case. But, independently of this a
priori argument, we have sufficient evidence to prove that
many of the cases of pneumonia, at least, were severe cases.
A few of these cases are reported in detail by Dr. Fleischmann himself, and we have ourselves had the statement corroborated by the private testimony of a physician, (not a
Homceopath,) who attended Dr. Fleischmann's wards for
three months. This gentleman watched the course of several cases of pneumonia, and traced their progress by the physical signs, through the different stages of congestion, hepatization, and resolution, up to a perfect cure, within a period
of time which would have appeared short under the most
energetic treatment of Allopathy."-P. 243.
Again, in reference to the cases published in my treatise,
you say of two " well-marked cases of acute rheumatism,"
and two of "severe neuralgia," that "it would be unfair
to deny that the result obtained in these four last cases would
have been regarded as very satisfactory under any mode of
Allopathic treatment," p. 245; and of the cases generally,
" we do not hesitate to declare, that the amount of success
* I shall by- and-by show that this account of the doses is altogether incorrect -W. H.


