
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.

19

to the character and genius of Hahnemann, and to the ability
and good faith of many of his followers, that must satisfy
your readers that you would scorn to rank among those who
are filching his discoveries, and arraying themselves in his
hard-earned honours. And if, in your tribute to him, you
have stopped short of his greatest merits, and have failed to
give him credit for having effected any positive good in the
practice of medicine, the defect must be ascribed to the limited extent of your acquaintance with his labours, rather than
to any unkindly feeling towards his memory. The length
you have gone, however, is new in this country among the
adherents of the ancient school, and gives you a claim to such
marked commendations as are psually paid to justice and
generosity when they are scarce.
These virtues appear to flourish better among our professional brethren in Germany, so that it seems to confer no particular claim to distinction among them, that a man should
give honour to whom honour is due. They are generally
much better informed also than our English physicians are,
and, therefore, if the propensity to pilfer were exercised by
any of their number, he would be sure of being speedily detected and pilloried for his crime. Hence it is, that while
in this country one of the most valuable discoveries of Hahne
mann's method of ascertaining the curative properties of
medicines, has been stolen from Homceopathy, without a
word of acknowledgment to indicate the source from which
it was originally taken, his more just and candid countrymen,
while they take advantage of his labours, award the discoverer the encomiums to which he is entitled.  It was Hahnemann," says Professor Maly, of Gratz, "' who first recommended the use of Aconite in pure inflammatory fevers, with
or without eruption, as well as in inflammatory diseases
generally, in obedience to his principle, similia similibus, by
which the effusion of blood, except in certain exceptional
cases, is wholly obviated. Even were we under no other.
obligation to Hahnemann, by this simple discovery, he would,
like Jenner, deserve to be ranked amnong the greatest benefactors of sufering humanity."  Professor Maly teaches Materia Medica in an established university-is no Homolopath,
in the technical sense of the term-publishes his series of
observations on the subjects of his professorship in an Allo- *
pathic periodical, and yet seeks no warrant in these circum,stances for plagiarism and injustice. It would be well if
others would follow the honourable example in regard to this,
and the other discoveries, of the same illustrious man, with


