
22

PROFESSOR HENDERSON'S

"There is no way more certain, or more natural, for
finding infallibly the proper effects of medicines on man than
to try them separately, and in moderate doses, on healthy
persons, and to note the changes which result from them in
the physical and moral condition."-P. 194.*
0' It will never enter the mind (of the true physician) to
give as a remedy more than a single simple medicine at a
time."-P. 280.t
I have said that the adoption of these principles of
Homoeopathy is fraught with the future recognition of the
most valuable parts of Hahnemann's system. And, first,
for this reason, that the proving of medicines on healthy persons will convince medical men of the accuracy of Hahnemann's experiments, and thus effectually silence the bbjections which have been drawn from the supposed impossibility of such medicinal symptoms as he describes ever having
been produced.   If the new provers of your "Young
Physic " proceed courageously and skilfully in their work,
this cannot fail to be one result of their labours and sufferings. The transactions of the Homoeopathic Society of
Vienna abundantly warrant the anticipation. The members
of that body have begun to subject the Materia Medica of
Hahnemann to a rigid experimental scrutiny, and as their
mode of proceeding is worthy of being followed as an example, I transcribe this short account of it, and its bearings on
the credibility of Hahnemann.
" The members meet, and to each is given a portion of the
medicine to be experimented with, without telling him what
that medicine is. At home they take this medicine in various doses, and write down all the effects they have observed;
they then meet again, and each reads over the symptoms it
has produced on him. Thus, there is obtained a series of
festimonies from well-qualified and independent observers.
They have found that the general results of Hahnemann's
provings are perfectly accurate, and have expressed their admiration of his skill as an experimenter, and faithful describer
of his experiments."-British Journal of Homceopathy, p. 8,
January, 1846.
You who have never proved a medicine, I presume,
oppose your notions of how medicines ought to behave themselves when taken by a person who does not need them, to
* Exposition de la Doctrine M6dicale Homceopathique, 2nd edition. Taris,
1834.
t Ibid.


