
14

PROFESSOR HENDERSONXS

employs no other treatment" than the expectant.*      "Very
inconsiderable," with Grisolle, would doubtless mean one
death in every five, or four, or perhaps three, cases, seeing
that his own practice, which he stoutly defends against M.
Bouillaud, furnished no less than one in six and one-third.
The " very inconsiderable" was clearly meant to be coupled
with "considering that the cases were left to nature."   His
own mortality was very considerable beyond all dispute;
and if he meant to say that Biett's was, in the plain, absolute, and unqualified sense of the words, very inconsiderable,
he was bound to adopt, and to recommend it to others, instead of laying down rules for the use of blood-letting, and
tartar emetic.
Equally; vague and unsatisfactory is the statement you
make on your own authority:-" We may add that, to our
knowledge, the same plan has been followed in one, at least,
of the large hospitals of Germany, and the result was considered to have been far from unsatisfactory."-P. 246. This
abandonment of the old practice, in favour of none at all, is
scarcely the most obvious tribute to its efficiency. In this
we agree; and as to the German result, to which you refer
in such very precise terms-so much preferable to hard statistical tables-it amounted, we may suppose, to the loss of
only a third, or a fourth, of the cases; a result certainly i far
from unsatisfactory," as the consequence of no treatment at
all, when even active treatment loses between a sixth and a
seventh, or, if I may adduce the experience in one at least
of the larger hospitals of Britain, a third! How would you
have dealt with the luckless Homoeopath who should attempt
to encounter the statistics of Allopathy, with such miserable
statements as you oppose to those of Dr. Fleischmann?
Although I have said enough to satisfy any unprejudiced
and intelligent person that the Homoeopathic practice in
pneumonia is very much more successful than the Allopathic, I cannot quit the subject without affirming, that you
* There is a small mistake in your account of this. Grisolle uses the word
"guere," which is not no, but scarcely. Even Magendie, notoriously bold and
unfeeling as he is, dared not habitually to give up all treatment. The mistake,
however, favours your side of the argument. For it would be a presumption, and
you employ it as such, in favour of no treatment, and in the same measure
against the claims of Homeopathy to be some treatment, if any physician saw
good reason to relinquish the employment of medicine in the treatment of pneumonia. But even Magendie did use some remedies, though apparently neither
very active, nor very successful; for your Dublin contemporary for February,
who appears to speak from personal knowledge, affirms that the mortality was
held by lookers-on to be greater under the distinguished physiologist than under
his colleagues, and therefore much greater than under Homceopathy.


