
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.

29

minute division. The fact is believed, you perceive, by very
high Allopathic authorities. The principle, therefore, of
your objection is the reverse of an acknowledged one among
scientific men-and the only difference between Allopathy
and Homoeopathy on the subject is, that what Orfila and
others assert of mercury, Hahnemann asserts of charcoal,
carbonate of lime, and some other substances; and he has
this advantage over those who impugn his opinions, that
he has experimentally tested their truth, and his opponents
have not!
Of the same complexion with your statements on this
subject.is the following:-" We hold the great alleged fact
from which the doctrine took its rise to be no fact at all; or,
at least, not to be a fact of that generality of manifestation
which a theory said to be of universal applicability ought to
rest upon. We deny, on the other hand, that many of the
medicines said by Hahnemann to be capable of exciting
artificial diseases in the healthy body, are really possessed of
such powers. We instance, in proof of our assertion, the
very medicine which gave rise to the idea of the doctrine in
its author's mind-cinchona. We deny that it will produce
ague, or any thing like ague, or any other form,of fever, in
the majority of human beings; and so of a large proportion
of the Homoeopathic remedies in common use."--P. -234.
This extract is brimful of mistake, gratuitous assumption,
and false inference. The "great alleged fact" on which you
strangely imply that the doctrine rests, is, I may inform your
readers, that Hahnemann, when trying on his own person
the effects of cinchona, says he became affected with the
symptoms of ague, a disease, as is well known, generally
treated by that medicine. You might just as well say that
the great fact on which the theory of mutual attraction, or
gravitation, among the heavenly bodies, rests, is Newton's
having witnessed an apple fall from a tree! That very small
fact "gave rise" to the train of ideas in the philosopher's
mind which issued in, the discovery of a great law; but I
nowhere learn that it is made the basis of his doctrine.
That basis is found in calculations and facts, which embraced
an ample range of observation. The small fact suggested,
and found its explanation in the general law, but would have
made but a poor basis for so magnificent and comprehensive
a theory. Just so with Hahnemann and cinchona. The
effects of the drug suggested and found their explanation in
the Homceopathic law, but are as innocent in being a basis
as the fall of the redoubtable apple., The great fact on


