
36

PROFESSOR HENDERSON S

unable to select the most suitable and successful remedy;
while the Stethoscopist, by the aid of his additional means
for ascertaining the pathology of the case, is able to do so
with certainty and ease.  Both may succeed eventually in
their object, even with this disparity of knowledge, in the
majority of instances; but he who has the aid of the more
accurate diagnosis will succeed the soonest, and the most
frequently.
While the explanation I have given of the manner in
which some cases of disease are now treated by Homoeopaths, which have had no actual parallel in the effects of
the provings of medicines on healthy persons, shows how
the principle-similia similibus-has led to the practice,
there are, undoubtedly, not. a few instances in which
remedies have been introduced among Homasopathists, without having been suggested by that principle. These are
termed by Homcoopathists-empirical remedies,because they
did not spring from the general law, but were discovered by
chance, or something akin to it, like the empirical remedies
in general. They believe such remedies to cure Homceopathically, because they do so in the same doses as the
Homceopathic remedies in general do. This belief may be
right or it may be wrong; but the fact explains how diseases
may be maintained by Homceopaths to be curable Homoeopathically, which it may be difficult to conceive were ever
experienced by a prover.
As you seem to have read no other work on the doctrines
of Homc.opathy than those of Hahnemann, and to be unacquainted with the practice as now almost universally pursued
by the physicians of his school, it is not surprising that you
should have given a very inaccurate account of the actual
state of the Homoeopathic art and doctrines. It never seems
to have struck you that the third of a century might have led
to considerable alterations in such parts of the system as admitted of being corrected or modified by experience; or that
it was possible that those who embraced the leading precepts
of the practice could differ from their author on the soundness
of some of his views. To go back to works of Hahnemann,
published twenty or thirty years ago, for an account of
Homzeopathy, to be presented to the public for the present
day, as a fair exposition of the system, is about as fair as if
one were to produce the views and statements of Laennec as
exhibiting, in all respects, the existing principles and practices of auscultation. That distinguished man has had many
disciples, (among whom none in this country deserve to rank


