
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.

33

treat such cases, is the implied interrogation? How would
you? How would C the most experienced physicians?"' For
my own part, I humbly confess, I should not know how to
treat them. Homceopathy makes no claim to the power of
resuscitation. But as you allow that the members of your
side of the profession "continue to be almost as ignorant of
the actual power of remedies in modifying, controlling, or
removing diseases," p. 253, as they have been in all times
past, and that the changes which follow their treatment are,
"alas! as often for the worse as for the better," p. 258, it
seems pretty clear that they must sometimes procure, or
hasten, the fatal issue of the maladies they undertake to cure,
an amount of potency which you do not grant to Homoeopathy, and which Homceopathists, to do them justice, are
not ambitious of claiming;-as Allopathy, I say, appears
thus to possess the power of killing, it is possible that it may
aspire to make alive, were it only as a matter-of simple
compensation. If such be the fact, Homceopathists give way
at once, acknowledging the imperfection of their art in this
particular, an imperfection which has reduced them to the
necessity of consigning their dead to the treatrent of the
undertaker.
You next observe, "Every physician, for example, has
met with cases of chronic pleurisy, with extensive effusion
into the chest, which presented no. pectoral symptoms, and
which were only detected by auscultation. How could the
fitting remedy for such cases be selected on the principle of
similia similibus?" This is a fair question, and the cases
fair ones for practice, if you mean to bend so far to the imperfection I have acknowledged as to let us try our skill
before death and dissection.  In the first place, then, a
Homoeopath, ignorant of auscultation and percussion, could
not treat such cases at all, any more than an equally ignorant
Allopath could. But Homeopaths study auscultation and
percussion quite as much, and know them as well, as your
Allopaths, whether of the old, or young, physic school; and
as pleurisy is not always latent, but is commonly attended
by pectoral symptoms, they have been able to determine what
remedies are useful in the ordinary cases. When, therefore,
extraordinary cases of the kind you mention occur, they
still use the same remedies, and on the very rational supposition, that if they cured the pleurisy with the pectoral symptoms, they have a fair prospect of curing it without them.
Analogy, it is true, suggests the means in such latent cases;
but the similia similibus furnishe'd the initiative. At the
3


