
62

PROFESSOR HENDERSONIS

its not recovering may help to prove something against the
treatment. Had the case in question, and others of the
same kind, undergone no improvement under the treatment,
would you have sneered at them     as contemptible?     I suspect not,-and you would have been right.
The other case to which I refer I transcribe, with your
comments upon it.
" A young lady, aged 19. Aug. 3.-For between two and three years
has been subject to diarrhcea, with pain in the bowels, after intervals
rarely exceeding a week. The attacks last for several days, and the
bowels are moved from six to ten times a day. She is ill at present with
one of them. Pulsatilla, 6 twice a day. 29th.-A day or two after last
report, the diarchcea ceased, and has not recurred. 10th September.Continues without having had a return of diarrhoea; a length of interval
which she does not remember to have occurred since the complaint
began.
" When the intervals did exceed a week, how much did they exceed
it 1 Did they ever reach four weeks. If the young lady could not
remember this, Dr. Henderson should have inquired of those who could,
before he adduced this flimsy case as evidence of the potency of his billionth of a grain of Pulsatilla. Does Dr. Henderson think it a strange
thing in the economy of nature, and only to be explained by the Deus ex
machina of Homceopathy, that a case of diarrhoea, characterized by inter.
vals of health, should stop as usual, although an incomprehensible something was given, and that it should not return for a few days longer on
one particular occasion? These may seem little things to comment on,
but surely little things will not be despised by Homceopathists of all
men; and here they very significantly show the sort of philosophy we
have to deal with. Men capable of admitting cases of this kind as
evidence-and we could extract fifty from Dr. Henderson's book much
feebler than this-are demonstrably disqualified to treat of things which
demand for their handling the stern logic of a masculine mind."-P. 249.
The severe observation which the last sentence contains
on myself I let pass without remark, as I have reason to
believe that you regret it. I may say, however, that it gave
me no uneasiness, because I felt it to be undeserved. As
to your inquiries about the case, I confess I am puzzled to
know to whom I should have applied for the particulars you
desiderate so very much.    Who ought to know more of such
matters than the person chiefly concerned, when arrived at
years of discretion? I know no one who took so lively an
interest in the transaction as she, or who had a better right
to do so; and if she could not remember, who knew all the
outs and ins of it, whose memory could have been trusted?
It is certain, however, that she could have remembered
whether, for two or three months before, she had had an interval of four weeks' freedom from her complaint. That, I
think, will be allowed.  Then, she may be allowed to have


