
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.

39

make use of the opprobrious epithet on two occasions in your
review, and under the avowed conviction that the system is
" calculated to destroy all scientific progress in medicine."P. 251. But the manner.in which you work out your conclusion, if it were not palpably the result of ignorance, would
call for a.very strong term of reprobation to characterize it.
You first misrepresent the subject of your criticism in a manner that may be excused in the obscure editors of our monthly
and weekly prints, but is altogether unworthy a man of your
place and reputation; and then you pelt it with your scientific contempt. You, indeed, qualify the sneer I have quoted
by saying, that if, by Homceopathy, "diseases were to be
better treated and more speedily arn~ frequently cured, it
would be not only absurd, but transcendently wicked to sacrifice the welfare of humanity for the sake of a scientific phantom."  What is the scientific phantom that you would thus
magnanimously sacrifice for the good of humanity? Phantom! I suspect humanity will think it a strange phantomsomewhat of the gouhl or vampyre genus-that would make
the glory of the physician to consist in diagnostic and pathological acuteness, more than in the recovery of his patients.
"I am sometimes disposed to doubt," says an eminent disciple
of this phantom school, " whether the untoward event of a
disease, which his science had enabled him to predict, and
which he had assiduously endeavoured to avert with all the
resources of his art, is not productive of more real satisfaction-as it certainly is more creditable-to the philosophic
practitioner, than the recovery of a patient of the nature of
whose disease he is' ignorant."  A remarkable sentence,and all the more so because containing not the opinions of
an individual merely, but of an entire school-the modern
school of ultra-pathological physic. It is no wonder that
those who entertain such opinions should think that even if
Homceopathy were partially true, and, therefore, that it
might fairly be received as one of the recognised methods of
treating diseases, yet owing its success to the guidance of the
bare empirical formula similia similibus, as that is commonly
understood by the ignorant, it would " be very unfortunate
for medicine if this were done." Unfortunate for medicine!
No matter for humanity. When we consider the vast number of diseases whose nature is unknown, and the paucity
and feebleness which you acknowledge in the resources of
the ordinary practice, we can suppose that the cup of superior satisfaction and credit habitually overflows.
' But wherefore unfortunate for medicine? Homeopathy,


