
24

PROFESSOR HENDERSON'S

With all the exuberance of Hahnemann's details, the case
is not nearly so incredible as you make it appear. You ridicule the idea of one thousand and ninety symptoms being
producible by one medicine. And yet a very little attention
to the proving of Calcarea, the medicine you specify, will
show you how unfair the inference is that you allow to be
drawn by the bare transcription.of the numerals which stand
at the close of the list. The fact is, that scarcely one-tenth
of the number consists of distinct and separate symptoms,
(true or false.) For example, the first nine figures, (the
seventh excepted) relate strictly to only one symptom. And
this is multiplied into what appear to be eight to one who
does not read the sentences corresponding to the figures, by
the degrees of the symptom (vertigo) at different times of the
day being separately noted, and by the circumstances of its
being present in the open air, on walking and sitting, on
moving and lying still, being also noted and numbered
separately. In the same way, for the purposes of distinctness. and easy reference, are all the other symptoms split up,
as it were, and numbered. This was Hahnemann's method
with all his provings, and you perceive how small a degree
of explanation deprives your objection of its weight, and
how little attention was necessary on this, as on other occasions, to save you the uneasiness of a misrepresentation.
But your objections to the provings of Hahnemann extend to other particulars besides the number of the symptoms. You object to the nature of the symptoms also, and
lay special emphasis on the absurdity of including surgical
diseases among them. As I do not know where you fix the
disputed boundaries of surgery and medicine, I may not be
qualified to feel all the surprise which appears to have pervaded your mind, when somebody gave you to understand
that many surgical diseases are recorded among Hahnemann's provings. Possibly visions of compound fractures,
concussions of the brain, popliteal aneurisms, and carcinomatous tumours, were called up by the intelligence. If so, I
can quiet your concern on the subject, by assuring you, that
neither Hahnemann nor any of his assistants went to so great
a length in their devotedness to science, as to incur tho risk
of such serious consequences; and that they do not any
where allege that they ever experienced them. There is a
little work which you do not seem to have read, called " A
Defence of Hahnemann and his Doctrines," &amp;c., that exposes the source of your error. Allow me to refer you to it
for information on this point, and on many of the same kind,


