
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.

S7

higher than yourself,) who have added much to auscultation
that he had overlooked, and corrected many errors into which
he had fallen. Yet auscultation, with all the additions it has
gathered in the last five-and-twenty years, and with all the
refinements which have been introduced into it by the multitude of its acute and zealous students, is, in point of magnitude and difficulty, utterly insignificant compared with
Hommopathy. While it, however, has altered and expanded,
by the assiduity and acuteness of its cultivators, Homceopathy must not be allowed to move a pinion, or change a
feather. Its principles and practice, as they came from their
author, must be stereotyped, and go down to posterity with
all their imperfections on their head. What work is there in
medicine, whose contents twenty, or even ten, years have not
rendered-more or less antiquated and obsolete? I cannot
charge my memory with one; and if such have been the fate
of medical dissertations, down even to the smallest on the
smallest subjects in the "orthodox" school, how unreasonable and unfair to admit of no modifications and improvements of the original views and precepts of a system which
embraces almost the whole field of practical medicine! I
need not say more to satisfy a man of your understanding and
literary attainments, that you have committed a very palpable violation of justice in the course you have adopted,
and that it is incumbent on you to correct the error into
which you have inadvertently fallen. Meanwhile, in order
to remove the false impression which your review is calculated to make on those whose information does not extend
farther than yours, I may inform your readers that there is a
very great difference between Hahnemannism and modern
Homoeopathy.
The customs and doctrines of Hahnemann, which are
now either abandoned, or regarded as open questions, by
Hommopathists, are his psoric theory of chronic diseases, or
that which refers them generally to the miasm of psora, or
itch, contaminating the constitution; his potential or dynamical hypothesis, which maintains that, by triturations and
shakings, medicines undergo an increase or development of
virtue, in addition to that which proceeds from the finer
division of their substance by mere dilution or attenuation;
the employment of the higher or weaker attenuations in
acute diseases; the necessity of very long intervals between
the doses of medicines.  And it is but fair to Hahnemann and to Homceopathy to add, that, latterly, he saw it
necessary to abandon in his own practice the two last of
these.


