
28

PROFESSOR HENDERSONIS

bonate of lime is capable of doing any thing of the sort.
Hahnemann, in reference to substances commonly esteemed
inert, while he maintains that it is only after many triturations that they acquire any power of acting on the system,
says, that in experimenting with them on the healthy body,
the high trituration selected for the purpose, must be taken
dose after dose in increasing quantities, and for many days,
until their effects become sensible. That they do produce
sensible effects when taken in this manner, is substantiated
on the same grounds as those which have, I trust, rendered
the provings of aconite abundantly credible to any one but a
disciple of Pyrrho. If it be not, either Hahnemann could
not "have been sincere in the belief of his doctrines," as you
say he was, or he must have belonged to another extreme in
philosophy from that maintained by the sceptics, that every
real event was imaginary, he must have believed on a large
scale in the occurrence of the most painful bodily sufferings,
which had no actual existence! He must have imagined
several distressing aches in his bowels and his brains, spasms
and palpitations that never actually occurred. He and those
who experimented with him on such substances, had been
well and hearty when they partook of them; yet, again and
again, as they returned to them, they became affected with
sufferings of no equivocal or contemptible kind. You do
not seem to be aware that the potency of minute division, in
giving activity to substances innoxious in the gross state, has
other advocates besides the Homceopaths. Fluid mercury,
you will admit, has been swallowed in ounces and pounds
without producing any serious evil. Yet there are undoubted
examples of persons inhabiting places in which a quantity of
this metal was kept, having become violently affected by the
c" infinitesimal" dose of it that found its way, at the ordinary
temperature, into the air they breathed. Some think that
the mercury had become oxidized, and had thereby acquired
an activity not possessed by it in its reguline state. But
Orfila, the greatest authority I could produce to you on this
subject, ascribes the effects simply to the minuteness of the
division in which the metallic mercury was afloat in the air.
Buchner and Pereira concur with him in the opinion. It
seems, then, to be no "gratuitous outrage" to the reason of
the most able and best informed men,#.whatever it may be to
that of others, to assert that substances which we can take
" into our stomachs with no other inconvenience than their
mechanical bulk," in " ounces, nay, pounds," can produce
the most formidable symptoms when in a state of very


