
18

PROFESSOR HENDERSON'S

ing a sensible effect, even though experience had not abundantly proved that they do.
I feel the more desirous of removing misconception in the
minds of professional opponents on this part of the subject,
because it is in the treatment of acute inflammations that
Homceopathy possesses the most momentous advantage over
the ordinary practice. I have already dwelt on this superiority, as shown in the case of inflammation of the lungs.
But the tables of Fleischmann and Reiss show an equally
remarkable superiority in regard to other inflammatory diseases. From these we learn, that of two hundred and fiftyeight cases of erysipelas, chiefly of the face too, only two
died; of one hundred and twenty-six cases of peritonitis,
only six; of forty-five cases of inflammation of the membranes of the heart, not one died; of two hundred and fortyeight cases of pleurisy, only three. I need not institute a
detailed comparison of such results, with the tables furnished
from Allopathic hospitals. You know that this is done in the
excellent Introduction to Homceopathy, edited by Drs. Drysdale and Russell; and you know, also, the vast superiority
which the comparison exhibits in favour of the Homceopathic practice. I may further observe on this most important
point, that it would be strange indeed, contrary to every
principle of probability, that the circumstances you mention
as liable to vitiate the inferences that may be drawn from a
comparison of the kind, should, in so many separate instances, be accidentally so entirely in favour of Homceopathy.
Although I have commented with some rigor on a few of
the errors of narration, and of inference, which disfigure your
allusions to Homceopathy as claiming the credit of a mastery
over acute diseases, which no other plan of treatment possesses, I sincerely believe, that if you had entertained but a
suspicion of the truth, you would have honestly and manfully avowed it. I am far from supposing that the man who
has had the courage and candour to proclaim to the world
the unsoundness of the ordinary practice; the necessity of a
thorough regeneration of practical medicine; that " things (in
Allopathic physic) have arrived at such a pitch, that they
cannot be worse,"-and that I they must mend or end;"I am far from thinking that he who could utter such truths
as these, so unpalatable to the general taste, so truly
Hahnemannic, would hesitate to declare that the claims of
Homceopathy were just, if he only knew enough of the subject to qualify him to decide. You have borne a testimony


