
6

PROFESSOR HENDERSON'S

that it is as it is; but if it were our fault, still it ought to be
made known. There, as in morals, the more sensibly we
feel our defects, the more openly and heartily we confess
them, the more likely are we to get rid of them. As thus
reflected in our critical mirror, the features of our ancient
mother assuredly look somewhat unattractive. She seems
neither happy nor prosperous; yea, she seems sick, very
sick; yet not sick unto death. On the contrary, we believe
that she is more vivacious and vigorous than at any preceding time; her countenance is merely 'sicklied o'er with
the pale cast of thought,' from the strength of her inward
throes; 'the genius and the mortal instruments are now in
council, and her state, like to a little kingdom, is suffering the
nature of an insurrection.' And such, in truth, do we believe to be, literally, the condition of physic at this moment.
Things have arrived at such a pitch, that they cannot be
worse. They must mend or end. We believe they will
mend. The springs of life are yet untouched; the constitution retains its rallying power; the vis medicatrix is in action; and we flatter ourselves that there is yet enough of
young blood and energy and wisdom in our ranks to redeem the past, and to achieve that glorious regeneration,
which has been long announced by infallible signs and portents in these latter days. Old as we are, we yet hope to
see raised the standard of 'Young Physic,' though we cannot expect to see it furled, after the destined victory is
won."-P. 261.
So much for your estimate of the old system; one which
has long occupied your thoughts, and which, I may be permitted to say, was so entirely mine also, that I thought it
worth while to examine the pretensions of a new system.
Then, as to Homceopathy; in commenting on a general
comparison of its success, with that of the old system, as
shown in the tabulated results of Fleischmann's practice in
the HIomoeopathic hospital of Vienna, and of several French
and British hospitals, you say"r The remarks above made are even of more importance,
in relation to the general subject now under consideration,
than they may seem to be at first. They not only show that
the kind of successes and failures experienced by the Homcepathists, is precisely the same as that experienced by the
Allopathists; but they also seem to show that the medication of the former can boast of no peculiar virtue whereby
it can achieve triumphs in fields altogether forbidden to the
latter. Under the influence of medicines, all of which must


