
64

PROVESSOR HENDERSON S

where.    I leave you and your contemporary to settle
the point between you; while I content myself with the
fact that the results of my cases must have appeared to the
said writer too satisfactory to be published in his review,
seeing that in his report of them he has taken such liberties
with the text as, I trust are not to be regarded as specimens
of Irish honesty, among priests or physicians, the vulgar or
the polite. It promises little for the character and prosperity
of a new periodical that it should come into the world with
disingenuousness stamped on its forehead. For, unwilling as
I am to make a grave charge against an opponent as long as
charity can suggest an excuse for him, in the present instance
no choice is left me;-and I accuse the writer of that review
of having studiously misrepresented the cases he has quoted.
How sad it is that an uncandid spirit should befoul the current
of criticism in questions of science and humanity. In the
words of Hazlitt, "a writer who assumes the garb of candour,
and an inflexible love of truth, to garble and pervert it, to
crouch to power, and pander to prejudice, deserves a worse
title than that of a sophist."
If the literal truth were known, I suspect it would appear
that the cases are something of a puzzle to you Allopaths.One will have it, that the recoveries are so satisfactory that
they must be due to the cunning hand of nature,-whose
works so far excel the doings of man; another, that they are
so incredible that the cases must have been too highly coloured,-(The Lancet, 1845;) a third (the Dublin Journal,) that
Allopathy could have done better. On the whole, then, the
cases and recoveries may be regarded as tolerably good.
That portion of your article which-is specially addressed
to the practitioners of orthodox medicine, and lays down
rules for the future guidance of " Young Physic," does not
lie within the scope of what I proposed to myself in this
letter, and I shall say little about it. Almost the only thing
that strikes me as worthy of remark, in connexion with it, is,
that your Dublin contemporary is somewhat unkind in receiving so coldly your scheme in reference to a " Young Physic,"
considering that you propose that a part of his nursing should
be according to a genuine Irish receipt. Your ninth rule runs
thus:" To discot~ntenance all active and powerful medication in the acute
exanthemata, and fevers of specific type, as small-pox, measles, scarlatina,
typhus, &amp;c., until we obtain some evidence that the course of these diseases
can be beneficially modified by remedies."


