
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.

47

culties arose to prevent a speedy and conclusive proof of its
fallacy; and that the particular view which he took of new
and extraordinary phenomena was countenanced, and, it
may have been, suggested, by certain facts, which seemed to
admit of no other interpretation, namely, the actual acquisition of medicinal energy, by means of trituration, by substances otherwise inert. Minute division, and the solubility
which it bestows, appear to be the true explanations of these
facts-explanations, however, which could have been afforded with certainty only by long and unbiassed observation.
I must, however, do you the justice to acknowledge, that
you do not argue in the way I have condemned; you admit
that though the theory, doctrines, or principles of Homoeopathy were proved to be false, " we have no demonstrative
evidence that it is false in its practical bearings-false, that
is, powerless, as a means of cure."  If this be true of the
doctrines in general, it is very plainly so in-reference to the
potential hypothesis, which has nothing to do with the main
law of Homceopathy-the similia similibus principle. The
former is disproved by Hahnemann's own followers, and by
them only; the latter they hold to be demonstrably true.
The psoric theory, or rather hypothesis of Hahnemann, is,
perhaps, the most unfortunate of his speculations.  Not,
indeed, on account of anything essentially unphilosophical in
either its pathological or practical bearings-but because of
the peculiar light in which the disease from which it takes
its name is regarded-at least in this country. And as I, like
yourself, am an undeniable Caledonian, I am not less sensible
than you are, that there is something of the ludicrous about
it.. But if we lay aside our national feelings on the subject,
and look at it in sober seriousness, we must admit, I think,
that it may bear a construction discreditable neither to the
pathological acuteness of its author, nor to his practical sagacity. It amounts essentially to this, that the majority of
chronic ailments are due to a constitutional taint, which betrays itself by a variety of symptoms and. sensible effects in
different persons, or in the same person at different times;
and that, in order radically and effectually to cure those
chronic disorders, it is not enough that the physician should
direct his treatment against them individually or dollectively,
but that he should also have regard to the state of the constitution from which they spring. There is nothing new in
all this. Every one knows that in one form or another the
doctrine is applicable to a multitude of troublesome and dangerous disorders. Scrofula, gout, syphilis, rheumatism, are


