
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.

17

cures pneumonia only as soon as no treatment at all! Quod
est absurdum. I am the more astounded at this result of
your argument, because the very facts which I have quoted
from Grisolle, in proof of the advantage of the ordinary
treatment over no treatment, are contained in a previous
number of your own review.
You have been unfortunate in not having considered attentively the means which Dr. Fleischmann used in the
course of his remarkable success in inflammation of the
lungs. Had you done so, you might have avoided the blunder which I have now exposed, for you would have discovered that the solutions of phosphorus, which formed
his principal remedy, contained a notable quantity of that
very active substance. If you had consulted Fleischmann's
notice of his practice contained in The British Journal of
Homceopathy, No. 5, you would have found that his first
attenuation of phosphorus contains, in every hundred drops,
a grain of the drug; in the second, nearly one-tenth of a
grain; and in the third, about one-hundredth. These are
the attenuations used by Homceopathists in severe cases of
pneumonia, as you will perceive from the cases detailed by
Fleischmann and myself. Now, if you had considered that
the dose of this medicine, when given after the rules of your
own school, is only about the fiftieth of a grain-or only
double the dose of the first Homoeopathic attenuation-you
could hardly have concluded that the Homaoopathic treatment of pneumonia is incapable of producing any positive
effect. You would have perceived that it is not by the
millionth, or the billionth of a grain of phosphorus that the
Homceopathists claim the credit of curing pneumonia so
much more successfully than others. And I may here remark, in reference to acute diseases, that the lower or
stronger attenuations of the medicines are those almost universally used, a circumstance which you do not seem to
have known when you made the general remark at p. 229,
that "the primary dilutions, or attenuations, are used comparatively rarely," otherwise you would, doubtless, have
made an exception in respect to inflammations, and thus
have silenced the clamour of these opponents who labour to
frighten the public out of its propriety, by representations
founded alike on malice and ignorance. Whatever ýmay be
thought of the higher attenuations and their alleged value, in
chronic diseases, there can be no doubt, in the mind of any
rational man, as to the lower, both actually containing a very
sensible quantity of medicine, and being capable of produc

