
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.                9
obtained by Dr. Henderson in the treatment of his cases,
would have been considered by ourselves as very satisfactory, had we been treating the same cases according to the
rules of ordinary practice."-P. 250.
Now all these admissions have the appearance of fairness, and considering the manner in which the facts both of
Fleischmann and myself have been misrepresented by uncandid reviewers, they will seem startling and extreme to
most of your professional readers. Yet they are fair only in
a degree,--only to the level of your hypothesis regarding
the power of nature, and far short of the truth. A greater
amount of success than the old system you will not admit
Homoeopathy to procure; you allow it to run neck and
neck with the former in the treatment of some of the most
dangerous inflammations even, but not a hair's breadth
more. It must not pass the line of your preconceptions, let
the "hard words, and harder figures of statistical tables"
say what they may.
But the subject is far too important to be slurred over in
a way so summary and inaccurate, and I, therefore, hope
you will excuse me if I keep somewhat closer to the facts
than your hypothesis finds it convenient to do. To get rid
of the overwhelming evidence of the superiority of the
Homceopathic practice, as shown on a comparison of Dr.
Fleischmann's tables with similar tables of Allopathic physicians, you object to all the statistical tables that profess to
exhibit the comparative results of treatment of any kind.
The genius of the diseases at different seasons, the influence
of the sex, age, and condition of the patients, are so many
circumstances that seem to you to deprive the statistics, hitherto published, of value in such a comparison. And you
are right to this extent, that we have as yet no statistical details sufficiently minute, or so carefully classified, as to enable us to determine to a fraction what is the amount of superiority. which one kind of treatment possesses over another. But a degree of precision such as this is not necessary in the inquiry we have on hand. We want to know,
simply, on which side, the. Homceopathic or the Allopathic,
the advantage lies, and not the exact amount of the advantage. And to settle this point there is an ample accumulation of sufficiently minute information to leave no room for
doubt respecting it. In large collections of cases of any disease, the sex, age, and condition of the patient, and the date
of the disease when brought under treatment, becomes so
much equalized, that there is no danger, in comparing them,


