
54

PROFESSOR HENDERSON'S

ledge of the effects of medicines taken in health by the Allopathic or Antipathic methods? The Homaeopathic turns
them all to account, and no prover suffers in vain. Because,
for every morbid symptom or effect it seeks a corresponding
medicinal one. Let your new provers but bring their experience Qf medicinal diseases to corroborate that of the Homceopaths, and the universal adoption of Homceopathy is at hand.
They cannot leave their knowledge of the provings of medicines to lie useless while others turn theirs to the advantage
of mankind. They will try if they cannot do the same, and
for a rational man to try Homoeopathy is tantamount to his
conversron.
But when they do try to employ the medicines they have
proved on the healthy body, as remedies for disease on the
Homoeopathic principle, does it follow that they must adopt
the Homceopathic doses?  May they not continue to use
them in the larger quantities of the old practice? These are
points which they must determine by experience for themselves, if they will not extend their confidence to those who
have practised Homceopathically before them. I may, however, in the meantime observe that, even in the old system,
nothing is less determined than the proper doses of medicines.
A sagacious and experienced Allopathic physician, not very
long ago remarked to me, in reference to this subject, " What
do we know of the proper doses of medicines?"  Almost
every thing has yet to be determined among you on the subject, for it does by no means follow that the utmost quantity
of a drug which a patient can swallow without speedy and
obvious detriment, is the right quantity for curing his disease,
although this is unquestionably the principle which guides
the common practitioner in his prescriptions. In regard to
the doses of medicines, and the frequency of their repetition,
Professor J6rg, of Leipsic, the very opposite of a Homoeopathic practitioner, made the following suggestions twenty
years ago, which his brethren have been slow in adopting
c the smallest doses of medicines that are yet effective, exhibit their essentially curative powers with most purity and
most certainty, and secure us best against any secondary or
concomitant medicinal effects. '  * Most of the powerful
medicines are at present taken at far too short intervals, and
the recovery of the patient thereby greatly retarded, if not
altogether prevented, by his becoming affected with medicinal disease in too great an extent."* Jhrg is esteemed a great

* Materialien zu einer kiinfligen Heilmittellehre, p. 9.  1825.


