
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.

27

or combined-or as they varied in character and duration;
he notes down all he can learn from his friends of the same
kind, or gather from other credible authorities; and he numbers them separately to keep them distinct, though they are
sometimes the same, sometimes but little different from one
another, and so the list becomes long. In the same way,
tedious and toilsome, he gathers a list of sufferings experienced, if any, in every region of the body, and he is very
precise, and very anxious to be correct, all the symptomstheir diversities, and degrees, and shades of difference or of
sameness-are classified and numbered: and the last number
of the last shade turns up five hundred and.forty. He might
have omitted some repetitions, and some trfling differences,
and some trifling sensations-but he is precise, and he puts
them down; he may have felt certain of them often before
independently of medicine; at all events he feels them now,
and their presence can do no harm.
Many years after, a number of men, some twenty or so,
anxious to prove this medicine over again, take dose after
dose, on numerous separate occasions, and their experiments
corroborate all the principal details of the original proving,
and add some considerable items to the number. They, too,
are healthy men, accustomed to no such aches and pains as
they-experience while taking the physic; and they too, on
the principles of common sense, refer their sufferings to the
same cause, and in their simplicity never consider that " a
thousand reasons can be adduced for supposing the contrary
to be the fact!!"  Two or three good reasons will satisfyý
them entirely, I have no doubt, and when they are favoured
with these, they will take to aconite afterwards as kindly as
goats to milkthistle, or pigs to henbane!
Besides these objections to the provings in general, you
single out some substances as peculiarly liable to be considered utterly incompetent to produce any symptoms at all.
Thus you say-" When we find the Homceopathist maintaining that substances utterly powerless in a state of sensible
bulk, even in the greatest amount, acquire astonishing powers
by mere subdivision, without any discoverable change in
their physical or chemical properties,-can any proposition
be submitted to human apprehension that seems more utterly
impossible--more ludicrously absurd?"-P. 235. And you
ridicule the idea that the decillionth of a grain of such substances (charcoal and carbonate of lime,) can produce any
symptoms. But neither Hahnemann nor any one else ever
affirmed that the decillionth of a grain of charcoal or car

