
30

PROFESSOR HENDERSON'S

which the doctrine rests is, that diseases like those which may
be produced by medicinal substances, admit of being cured
by such of those substances as, in their effects on the healthy
body, resemble those diseases; and that fact, or general law,
is based on experiments that embraced an ample range of
observation too. But, say you, agues, or any other fevers,
do by no means so universally follow the taking of bark, as
apples fall to the earth when loosed from the tree. Well, be
it so; the latter is a great fact, then, because universally true;
and the other is not so great a fact, because not universally
true. But does it follow that it is no fact at all? That it has
so little of fact about it, that it had no business to " give rise
to the idea" of the Homceopathic law? If the excitement of
febrile symptoms by cinchona were but occasional and accidental, Hahnemann had as good a right to be the subject of
them as any one else. He seems to have been so, and has
made a better use of the accident than most men would have
done.
But is the occurrence of fever from the free use of cinchona so incredible or rare a thing as-you affirm? I do not
know whether you deny that it ever occurs, or merely that
it occurs often. You say, first, that " the great alleged fact
from which the doctrine took its rise is no fact at all;" and
afterwards only deny " that it (cinchona) will produce ague,
or any thing like ague, or any other form of fever, in the
majority of human beings."  As there is some obscurity, or
contradiction here, I shall construe the passages in a way
the most favourable to you, and presume that, in the first
clause, you mean to say that it is no fact at all that cinchona
produces the symptoms of ague, and in the second, that it
will produce "any other form of fever" only in a minority of
human beings.
In answer to this latter allegation, I refer you to any
authentic work on Materia Medica. Dr. Pereira, describing
the effects of bark on healthy persons, says, that by large
doses, " a febrile state of the system is set up, (manifested
by the excitement of the vascular system and dry tongue,)
and the cerebro-spinal system becomes disordered, as is
shown by the throbbing head-ache and giddiness."-P. 1404.
He does not pretend to determine what proportion of menf
will be so affected, but seems to think the operation in question rather characteristic, by the use of the indefinite article.
" If a man in perfect health," &amp;c., take a considerable quantity of cinchona, febrile action is set up. So much for the
production of fever, in regard to which property of cinchona,


