
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.

11

period of adult life, when the average success is the greatest,
and contrast this with the results of Fleischmann's practice
among persons of all ages. It appears, then, that between
the ages of twenty and forty, Chomel had a mortality of
one in eight, or double that of Dr. Fleischmann's at all ages.
The Homoeopathic physician does not mention the ages of
his patients; but the table he has given proves that his hospital is, like other general hospitals, devoted to the reception
of all kinds of disease; and judging from the nature of the
diseases he specifies in his table, it is clear that the persons
admitted were mostly past the period of adolescence. Thus,
of the diseases the most common in early youth, scarlet
fever, measles, hooping-cough, convulsions, general scrofula, varicella,, only one hundred and eighty-seven cases were
admitted in the nine years, while the whole number of patients was six thousand three hundred and twenty-two.
Again, if we compare the mortality of pneumonia under
the ordinary treatment, within limits of age still more favourable to recovery, (for you know that the mortality is
less as the age is earlier-that of early infancy excepted,)
we still find it greater than that of Fleischmann at all ages.
Barthez and Rilliet give us one hundred and sixteen cases
between the ages of sixteen and thirty, and Leroux* one
hundred and eighty-two cases between the ages of thirteen
and thirty, including a period of seventeen years, in which
the mortality is at the lowest, after the age of puberty, in the
ordinary practice; and thus we have almost exactly the
same number of cases as Fleischmann adduces, and collected,
too, in various years and seasons. The mortality was more
than one in twelve, or one-fourth greater than that of the
Homceopathic practice. All that. can be said or imagined, by
any experienced and reflecting person, of the sources of fallacy in statistics, cannot subvert the conclusion from these
facts,-that the Homieopathic treatment of inflammation of
the lungs is vastly superior to the ordinary treatment. The
exact amount of its superiority may not be such as these
facts represent; it may be greater or it may be less, but that
is of no consequence to the present inquiry. What we want
to determine, I repeat, is simply which practice is the most
successful, and not the precise amount of the difference; and
yet it is only to this latter, and, in a practical point of view,
altogether secondary and insignificant consideration, that
your objections to statistics actually apply.

* Grisolle.


