
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.

power of nature. The riddle was thus easily solved. The
recoveries under the old system are mostly due to nature,
ergo, the recoveries under Homceopathy can be due to nothing more.
In order to guard myself from misrepresenting you, I shall
quote your own words. The inferences you specify as the
result of your deliberations are:" 1. That in a large proportion of the cases treated by
Allopathic physicians, (that is, of the old school,) the disease is cured by nature, and not by them.
" 2. That in a lesser, but still not a small proportion, the
disease is cured by nature, in spite of them; in other words,
their interference opposing, instead of assisting, the cure.
" 3. That, consequently, in a considerable proportion of
diseases, it would fare as well, or better, with patients, in
the actual condition of the medical art, as more generally
practised, if all remedies, at least all active remedies, especially drugs, were abandoned.   *      *      *      *
"Although Homeopathy has brought more signally into
the common day-light this lamentable condition of medicine
regarded as a practical art, it was one well known before to
all philosophical and experienced physicians.
" It is, in truth, a fact of such magnitude,-one so palpably evident, that it was impossible for any careful reader of
the history of medicine, or any long observer of the processes of disease, not to be aware of it. What, indeed, is the
history of medicine but a history of perpetual changes in
the opinions and practice of its professors, respecting the
very same subjects-the nature and treatment of diseases?
And, amid all these changes, often extreme and directly opposed to one another, do we not find these very diseases,
the subject of them, remaining (with some exceptions) still
the same in their progress and general event? Sometimes,
no doubt, we observe changes in the character and event,
obviously depending on the change in the treatment,-and,
alas, as often for the worse as for the better; but it holds
good as a general rule, that, amid all the changes of the
treatment, the proportion of cures and of deaths has remained
nearly the same, or, at least, if it has varied, the variation
has borne no fixed relation to the difference of treatment."
(P. 257-8.)
"The foregoing elucidations, it will not be doubted, disclose a lamentable state of things; but it is not a state to be
despaired of; much less is it one to be concealed as something disgraceful. It is more our misfortune than our fault


