
42

PROFESSOR HENDERSON S

searches of Louis and others 1 Is it not that patients recover as well, or
nearly as well, without it. Could it have been believed possible by the
practitioners of a century since, that syphilis could be safely treated, and
successfully cured, without mercury? Or that it could even be questioned that mercury was not specific in the cure of this disease ' And yet
what are the opinions and the practices of the surgeons of the present
day, and the indubitable facts brought to light during the last thirty
years? Are they not, that mercury is not necessary (speaking generally)
to the cure of any case, and that it is often most injurious, in place of
being beneficial ' The medical god, Mercury, however, seems as unwilling to be baulked of his dues as the mythological. If he has lost the
domain of syphilis, he has gained that of inflammation; and many of
our best practitioners might possibly be startled and shocked at the supposition that their successors should renounce allegiance to him in the
latter domain, as they themselves had done in the former. And yet such
a result is more than probable, seeing that there exists not a shadow of
more positive proof (if so much) of the efficacy of the medicine in the
latter than in the former case.
" The same truth, as to the uncertainty of practical medicine generally,
and the utter insufficiency of the ordinary evidence to establish the efficacy of many of our remedies, as was stated above, has been almost always attained to by philosophical physicians of experience in the course
of long practice, and has resulted, in general, in a mild, tentative, or expectant mode of practice in their old age, whatever may have been the
vigorous or heroic doings of their youth."-P. 258-9.
The general testimony of millions of physicians for two
thousand years amounts, then,but to a very small matter; and
if you prefer Allopathy on evidence of that kind, you may, on
as good, prefer believing in ghosts too. It was precisely on
such testimony that Johnson did so.      " This opinion," says
the sage, " which perhaps prevails as. far as human nature
is diffused, could become universal only by its truth."
One word more and I have done with this question of antiquity. You never once advert to the notorious and admitted fact, that some of the medicines long used in the old
school act ITomceopathically.     Nor do you hint that, so far
back as the time of Stahl, at least, that is, about 150 years
ago, the Homa2opathic principles, similia similibus, was expressly enforced as the proper rule for the prescription of
remedies!*
* In the following terms, " The rule admitted in medicine, to treat diseases
by remedies contrary or opposite to the effects which they produce, is completely
false and absurd. I am persuaded, on the contrary, that diseases yield to agents
which produce a similar disorder (similia similibus.)" This passage is quoted
in Hahnemann's Organon; for Hahnemann does not lay claim to the discovery
of the Homceopathic law by which remedies act, but to the merit of having determined the methods by which it may be carried out into full practical effect;
as the proving of medicines on the healthy body more carefully, and the diminution of the doses--two desiderata which had rendered the law, before his
time, of very limited use in practice.


