
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.

63

had no such interval for several months, at least, before the
comnlencement of the practice as she had immediately after,
Still the case does not prove that Homceopathy was the
source of her improvement. Granted: but had the complaint continued to recur with intervals "rarely exceeding a
week" after that treatment was begun, as it had done for
some two or three months before, (her memory may be
trusted so far, surely,) the case would have proved that Homoeopathy had failed. In a series of experiments regarding
the truth of an allegation, the failures are of no less importance than the successes, nay, in physic they are of far more
value as evidence, for successes may be only apparent, may
be fallacious, whereas about failures there can be no mistake.
You say that you can extract fifty much feebler cases than
this from the book. You cannot extract one that does not
bear upon the investigation in the same way, and with even
more significance than this; and though the view of these
experiments which I have now given appears never to have
occurred to you, it is not the less an important one, or one
which you ought to have seen without my help.
The cases in general were of that kind which composes
the great maijority of the ailments which are treated by the
rules of orthodox medicine, by purgatives, anti-spasmodics,
emmenagogues, leeches, blisters, anodynes, tonics, antacids,
rnercurials, &amp;c., and yet without any of these they recovered,
as you admit, very satisfactorily. Some of them were of a
more serious description, and had resisted the orthodox rules,
though applied ina few of them by some of the best practitioners in this city; and yet of these the majority recovered,
or were greatly benefited also; and in a very short time.
Those that did not, were mostly of a kind, or in a stage of
disease that defies all medical treatment, with the exception,
possibly, of the Irish. For, though your new contemporary
of Dublin,* with a racy Irish  quivoque, proclaims that
results which you term very satisfactory, would, in the hands
of Dublin Allopathy, " have been widely different"--I will
suppose the writer to mean that the Dublin practice would
have proved more successful; that the Allopathy of the
favoured Isle, where the "vulgar regard the physician as
scarcely second to the priest," (p. 179,) and where the polite,
we presume, regard him with much less reverence,-would
have been more fortunate than the Allopathy of Edinburgh, or of London-for modesty does not flourish every
* The Dublin Quarterly Journal of Medical Science, No. 1, February, 1846.


