
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.

21

mously of opinion, that experiments with medicines on
healthy individuals are, in the present state of medical
science, of urgent necessity for physiology and therapeutics.     *      *       *t
Dr. Siebert,T an Allopathic writer in an Allopathic journal for 1823,' observes, "It is not to be doubted that the
complaints so loudly made, for some time past, in regard to
the want of a foundation for therapeutics, have produced a
beneficial effect in two ways: the first is negative, consisting
in greater scepticism in the existing Materia Medica; and
the other is positive, being the proving of medicines on persons
in health, and more accurate experiments with them in
disease.    *           *      To outward appearances,
Homceopathy stands as much opposed to the old regime as
ever; but I do not believe it does so in reality. Under the
impulse given by this doctrine, medical science continues to
direct more attention to the effects of medicines upon the
healthy animal frame; while on the other hand, Homceopathists are every day directing more and more attention to
the physiological aspects of diseases which they had before
much neglected."
In the British and Foreign Medical Review for January,
1846, the learned editor, DR. FORBES, among the best expedients for bringing his art out of its present deplorable position, recommends the future cultivators of it " to re-consider
and study afresh the physiological and curative effects bf all
our therapeutic agents, with the view to obtain more positive
results than we now possess," and " to endeavour to substitute for the monstrous system of Polypharmacy now universally prevalent, [in the old school, W.H.] one that is, at least,
vastly more simple, more intelligible, more agreeable, and, it
may be hoped, one more rational, more scientific, more certain, and more beneficial.."
Professor Maly, of Gratz, already mentioned, urges the
exhibition, of medicines one at a time. Dr. Siebert, too, advocates the greatest possible simplification of the number and
form of drugs in prescribing.
-Now in these, and similar advices from various Allopathic
authorities, and which have been partly carried into practical effect, though to a very small extent, by Allopathic physicians, both in America and Europe, a very satisfactory testimony is given to two of Hahnemann's fundamental principles, which he thus expressed, whilst those who now echo
his words were enjoying the polypharmics of the nursery:
t British Journal of Homaeopathy. January, 1846.

t Ditto.


