
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.

15

give the latter less than its due, small as.that may be. Grisolle, as you know, left eleven slight* cases of pneumonia to
take their own way undisturbed by treatment, and he gives
an account of the time during which the characteristic expectoration, pain, and fever continued, and of the period at
which the phenomena of auscultation began to decline, and
when they disappeared.         He does the same        in reference
to the cases that were treated by blood-letting, and tartar
emetic, and affirms, justly, that the latter were convalescent
sooner than the former.
The details are to tthe following effect: 1. In the eleven
left to nature, the pain did not cease in a single case before
the seventh day; in several it lasted till the 20th, 25th, and
27th days; the mean was fifteen days. In four he was forced
to have recourse to cupping, owing to the persistence of the
pain, and one of them required a blister in addition. [He
helped the power of nature a little, after all.]
In the cases that were bled, (two hundred and thirty-two
in all,) the mean duration of the pain was seven days.
In those that were treated with tartar emetic alone, (fortyfour in number,) he does not mention the mean duration of
the symptom. But he says, " the first sign of amendment
consisted in a diminution, and sometimes a total cessation of
the pain, which was often very pungent and acute." In five
* In alluding to them, you say, "Dr. Henderson misjudges these cases in
terming them ' slight,' in comparison with the one treated by him. They seem
to have been fully as severe." P. 246. I persist, notwithstanding, in calling
them slight, unquestionably slight, cases. For Grisolle not only says that the
general symptoms were mild enough to satisfy him that he might leave them
to themselves without danger, but he says that the inflammation was " of small
extent'' in all of them. Why did you not notice this most essential particular 7
If you had, you could not have added that they were "fully as severe" as the
case of mine to which you allude. That case is stated to have had the lung
condensed " as high as the spine of the scapula," and from " the axilla all
down the lateral aspect of the side"-about two-thirds, at least, of the whole
lung. No small extent truly. In what other respects they were as severe,
neither you nor I have any means of knowing. Grisolle himself, the only au.
thority on the subject, says nothing of the frequency of the pulse, or of the respirations, of the state of the mental faculties, or of the state of quiet or restlessness
-the very point on which, much more than on any local signs, an opinion of
the severity of a case of pneumonia ought to rest. But you take it for granted
that his cases had delirium-pulses above 120, respirations 48, and much rest.
lessness night and day! All of these symptoms existed in my case, and must
have existed in the eleven if they were as severe. No experienced physician
can maintain that the mere fact of the disease having reached "the stage of
red hepatization" is a proof that it was severe. A small extent of hepatization,
and mild general symptoms, constitute slight cases of pneumonia if the disease
can ever be slight. I mention these particulars only to show how strangely you
depreciate what is Homoeopathic, and magnify beyond all warrantable compass
what may seem to bolster up your hypothesis.


