
32

PROFESSOR HENDERSON'S

It is possible that you meant, in alleging that the " great
fact " is not " a fact of that generality of manifestation which
a theory said to be of universal applicability ought to rest
upon," to signify that such is the case, because cinchona fails
often to cure ague, even in Allopathic doses, and this may be
one of the cases in which you say Homoeopathy failed where
it ought to have succeeded. If such be your meaning, it
originates from misapprehension. Cinchona does not produce
all the diversities that may occur in the symptoms of ague
in all manner of persons; and when one is affected with
an ague, the paroxysms of which is distinguished by symptoms which do not closely resemble those producible by
cinchona, Homceopathy declares that cinchona will not cure
that ague. The simple fact of its being an ague is never
alleged by Homoeopathists, and was never alleged by Hahnemann, as being all that is necessary to make it curable by
cinchona. It must be an ague, with symptoms of a particular
kind. This is the doctrine of Homceopathy in respect to
cinchona and agues, and in respect to every other medicine
in relation to disease, be it true or false. As every diarrhoea
is not curable by the same medicine, neither is every ague,
nor every stomach complaint. And the peculiar difficulty of
the practice lies in selecting that medicine,-among several that
may appear to suit, more or less, the particular disease, which
suits the particular case of that disease. Your allegation,
therefore, that certain private trials by those who were strangers to the practice, (and it can be to such only that you
refer,) were unfavourable to the claims of Homoeopathy, is
the weakest of all conceivable arguments; and, with a few
others of equal calibre that I have yet to notice;. shows an
eagerness nugis addere pondus which proves that you must
have been at a sad loss for argument, and can scarcely have
left any stone unturned in search of objections.*
Among the nugae more particularly connected with the
provings of medicines, and their value as guides to practice, I
may notice here an objection you make on the ground that
some diseases are latent, and can, therefore, afford no symptoms to guide us in the selection of a remedy.  How many
diseases," say you, " have been detected only on dissection
after death, and which have escaped the recognition of the
most experienced physicians!" How would a Homceopath
* Andral is the only Allopath who has published trials of the Homceopathic
practice, and his are, as is proved by Dr. Irwine, as absurd as can well bo
imagined.


