
52

PROFESSOR HENDERSON S

When you speak of the " anti-psoric" treatment being as
chronic as the diseases, in referring to the "two years" that
it requires in order to eradicate them, you mistake the meaning of Hahnemann.   He refers not to the cure of what you
would call the chronic disease, but to the removal of the psoric
taint in the system, his chronic disease. And I do think that
the time he demands is not unreasonable in that view. Most
men would be very thankful if they could get scrofula, or
gout, eradicated in two years, or ten; though they might
think either period rather long for the cure of a single fit of
the latter, or of the sore eyes, or glandular swellings of the
former.
Once more on this subject. When Hahnemann says that
your power of nature cannot cure chronic diseases, he still
plainly refers to the " psoric miasm," the constitutional distemper. If his psoric doctrine be regarded as true, the affirmation in question is also true; for psora is well known never to disappear spontaneously. But, waiving the psoric
doctrine, it is pretty certain that the power of nature does not,
in the sense of Hahnemann, cure the liability of human beings to become affected with chronic ailments, from time to
time, throughout their lives; and that is what Hahnemann
considered a proof that nature does not cure chronic diseases,
or psora with its many heads. There is no small difference
between this, the true view of the doctrine, and your version
of it. The latter you give in italics, as if to appeal to every
man's experience to testify that Hahnemann was grossly in
the wrong; whereas he made no such allegation as your
words imply.
But I must shortly notice my second reason for believing
that the course of provings which you and so many others
recommend to " Young Physic," must pave the way for a
universal adoption of Homoaopathy. Suppose the task exe-.cuted, and executed well, what can you gain by it, as Allopaths, but some additional purgatives, emetics, narcotics, antispasmodics diuretics, diaphoretics, and such like, of which
you have a store already ample enough to melt the mammiferous creation from off the face of the earth, or to lull it into
an endless sleep? I can understand how you may stumble
on remedies for particular diseases by trying drug after drug,
as each comes to hand, on persons that are ill. This is
the method that has been pursued for two thousand years, or
thereby, and it has brought some useful remedies to light, of
which some, probably the most, act Homceopathically where
they act with advantage. But what you can learn of the


