
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.

41

cannot be discarded by Homceopathy. A knowledge of the
action of medicines on healthy persons is.now called for on
all hands, and Homoaopathy has anticipated the general voice,
and added an immense amount of information to that department of science,-nay, has made it a branch of science
peculiarly its own; for on your side there is no proper information on the subject, and I shall by and by show that you
could not use it if there were.    What is there, then, in the
science of medicine that Homoeopathy has not? Antiquity.
Yes, simply antiquity! That is the only particular in which
it is wanting. Now, apart altogether from the general opinion (erroneous it would appear) that the science is not the
better of being old,-that the science of a century or two ago
is scarcely equal to the science of to-day,--pray what is the
difference between the antiquity of the present Allopathy
and its Homceopathic rival? Homoeopathy, we may say, is
fifty years old; how much older is the Allopathy you admire? Pathology, physiology, botany, and so forth, are the
same in both; it is in therapeutics alone that they differ.
And yet while you contend in one page (240) for the weight
of the " accumulated materials supplied by millions of observers during an experience of two thousand years" as telling vastly in favour of Allopathic therapeutics, you tell us,
very candidly and deliberately, in another, (260,) that " this
department of medicine must indeed be regarded as yet in its
merest infancy." In the interval between the two quotations you adduce abundant evidence that the latter opinion
is correct.  For example you say of the ordinary practice,' This comparative powerlessness and positive uncertainty of medicine,
is also exhibited in a striking light, when we come to trace the history
and fortunes of particular remedies and modes of treatment, and observe
the notions of practitioners, at different times, respecting their positive
or relative value. What difference of opinion; what an array of alleged
facts directly at variance with each other; what contradictions; what opposite results of a like experience; what ups and downs; what glorification
and degradation of the same remedy; what confidence now-what despair anon in encountering the same disease with the very same weapons;
what horror and intolerance at one time of the very opinions and practices which, previously and subsequently, are cherished and admired!
" To be satisfied on this point, we need only refer to the history of any
one or two of our principal diseases or principal remedies, as, for instance,
fever, pneumonia, syphilis; antimony, blood-letting, mercury. Each of
these remedies has been, at different times, regarded as almost specific
in the cure of the first two diseases; while, at other times, they had
rejected as useless or injurious. What seemed once so unquestionably,
so demonstrably true, as that venesection was indispensable for the cure
of pneumonia? and what is the conclusion now deducible from the facts
already noticed in the present article, (p. 246,) and from the clinical re

