
26

PROFESSOR HENDERSON'S

being at the time in health, and, on the whole, accustomed to
enjoy a tolerable share of bodily comfort. And suppose,
further, that they took especial care to avoid all irregularities
in regimen while their provings were going on. Well, one of
them finds that in a quarter of an hour or so after swallowing
a dose, say of aconite, "giddiness and headache" come on.
Has he reason to conclude that the aconite was the cause?
Possibly not. He had no giddiness or headache for many a
long day before-but let that pass; they may have been
accidental. As soon as he is well again, or some days after,
he takes another dose, and in ten minutes he finds his giddiness and headache return. On comparing notes with his
colleagues, he finds that the five other have all experienced, at
one or more trials, something of the same sort in various
degrees and combinations. Is he to believe his own senses,
and the concurrent experience of others, or, like Pyrrho the
Elean, to discard all such fallacies, and, unless the care of
his friends prevent him, swallow the whole bottle of poison
to vindicate his principles, and show his contempt for common
sense!
Again, though naturally possessing a good digestion, and
a peaceable stomach, he discovers that very soon after a dose
of this pernicious aconite, he feels a very inconvenient disgust
for his victuals, or such qualms as threaten to end in something
worse, and sometimes actually do so, or is tormented with
pains in his entrails, or his liver. He repeats the experiment
again and again; asks his comrades how they felt after their
doses, and consults old authors concerning their experience
and observation on the subject; and after all his researches
and trials, he finds that there is a remarkable concurrence of
evidence that those who knew no abdominal ailments for
weeks or months before, did, after every dose of that particular potion--some sooner, some later-undergo afflictions
of various kinds;-some nausea; some nausea and vomiting;
some pain, pressive shooting, or constrictive; some diarrhcea;
some vomiting and diarrhoma; some mere regurgitations;
some vomiting of blood, some of bile. And he finds, besides,
in himself and others, that, after the interval of a day or two
from the use of the medicine, he and they eat, and relish, and
digest their food as well as ever. He thinks all.this affords
some ground for believing, on the principles of common sense,
that aconite produces certain serious evils in the digestive
organs. He notes down his own sensations and doings under
its influence, as they occurred at different periods after the
several doses he had taken-as they happened to be solitary


