
LETTER TO DI. FORBES.

~5

" I'll never go into the water again till I learn to Swim"--
was the wise resolution of the Irishman, as the story has it,
who narrowly escaped being drowned. " Use no physic in
the acute exanthemata till we learn that it is of use," is the
new practical rule of a system strongly suspected of having
drowned not a few in its day.
Even the young Dublin Quarterly has some doubts, although not very definite, of the great advantages to science
of such a contemplative method as this; and ventures, very
innocently, to surmise that " Young Physic, if it ever germinate at all, cannot possibly be expected to bear any fruit till
our children, and our children's children, have been gathered
to their fathers."  If I mistake not, the treatment of the
acute exanthemata will not have commenced even then,
unless Young Physic apply to mesmerism for a revelation on
the point.
On looking over the extracts I have made, in the foregoing
pages, from your review, I observe that they do not include
your reservations in favour of a mild and judicious Allopathy.
As it would be unjust to allow the readers of this letter to
carry away with them the impression that you condemn the
ordinary practice altogether, I am bound to inform them that
this is not the case. While you boldly arraign the medical
art, as generally practised,-denounce the too indiscriminate
and profuse administration of drugs,-and lament the existing
ignorance respecting their remedial powers, you distinctly
affirm that Allopathy is a system " which, with all its faults,
contains a considerable amount of truth, and a yet greater
amount of good."
This statement, indeed, does not refer especially to the
Allopathic art, but appears to include its pathology, and other
branches of medical science. These, as I have already said,
are equally the-property of Homceopathy, and therefore no
Homceopath will desire to controvert your opinion. Yet, supposing it to include a little of Allopathic practice also, I can
offer no objection to its justice. For while embracing Homceopathy, in the sense in which I have explained it in this
letter, I do not think that it contains the whole truth of therapeutics, though I believe it to contain much more than any
other system. I am aware that in making this avowal I
shall not please the bigots among the disciples of Hahnemann, and may incur the sneer of the suspicious and sordid
(the sordid are always suspicious) among their opponents of
the old school. I count either event a very small matter,
persuaded that when the candid and intelligent on both sides
5


