
-12

PROFESSOR HENDERSON'S

What makes the comparisons I have made still more important and conclusive is, that the mortality of pneumonia
increases after the age of forty, so that from forty to sixty,
during Chomel's ten years, it was one in five; and above
sixty, one in two. This progressive increase in the mortality
with increasing years, appears, according to M. Grisolle, the
most learned writer on the subject, "to be the same in all
countries, in hospitals as well as in private practice."-P.
520. And yet, with all the disadvantage of a comparison of
cases, in which a portion must have belonged to periods of
life at which pneumonia increases in danger and severity,
with others drawn from a period when it shows much less
of a dangerous tendency, the success of Homoeopathy is indisputably greater than the ordinary practice.
In order to convey some idea of the superiority of the
Homoeopathic over the ordinary treatment of pneumonia, at
all ages, I adduce the following accounts, of which the Allopathic facts are derived from Grisolle's work, and the Homoeopathic from the statistical tables of Fleischmann and Reiss,
carried down to 1844. On the Allopathic side we have Louis, Trousseau, Grisolle, Laennec, Bouillaud, all eminent practitioners of a country whose medical practice you hold up to
the emulation of British physicians. Together, they furnish
five hundred and thirty-one cases of inflamed lungs; of which
eighty-one died, or one in six and two-thirds. In this number there are included fifty-seven cases by Laennec, of which
he says only two died. He is accused of having overstated
his success, having confessedly given his account only from
memory. And it is affirmed, on the authority of one who
attended his wards, that his loss was actually much greater
than he has allowed. Still, I have taken his own account of
the matter.
On the Homceopathic side we have, in addition to the two
hundred and ninety-nine cases of Fleischmann already noticed, forty-four treated by him in 1844; and thirty-four cases
of Dr. Reiss, treated in the Homceopathic Hospital of Linz*
in 1843 and 1844-the only cases of pneumonia, treated in
that hospital, of which an account has been published. In
all, then, three hundred and seventy-nine cases, and nineteen deaths, or one in twenty-the last forty-four of Fleischmann, and the thirty-four of Reiss, having all recovered!
It is well known that among females the rate of mortality
from inflammation of the lungs is higher than among males,

* Oesterreichische Zeitschrift fir Homceopathie.


