
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.

49

by men who are held, even in our day, as no contemptible
authorities in medicine. For example, Autenrieth advocates
the doctrine in the following remarkable terms, and at great
length in the same strain:" The most formidable, and, in our country, the most frequent source
of the chronic diseases of the adult, are the psoric eruptions badly treated by
sulphur ointment, or generally by other active greasy applications. 1 have
so often seen here the misery which by psora occurs to the lower classes,
and to those who have a sedentary occupation, and I see it daily in such
a manifold, melancholy aspect, that I do not hesitate a moment to declare
it loudly as a subject worthy of the observation of every physician and
even of every magistrate, who lays to heart the health of those committed to their care."*
I may notice that pulmonary consumption is one of the
diseases he traces to this cause.
Again, Schbnlein, the present professor of pathology and
therapeutics in the University of Berlin, in his Clinical Lectures for the year 1840, is reported to have expressed himself
to the following effect: (The case under observation was
one of organic disease of the heart, with dropsy.)
" What is the cause of this affection? On looking backwards we find
no other complaint than the itch. Latterly, the admission of sequela of
the itch, that old medical dogma, is not only become dubious, but has
been abandoned and turned into ridicule. Among the older physicians,
we particularly notice Autenrieth, who wrote a masterly treatise on this
subject, so that it was remarkably impudent in Hahnemann to pretend
that he was the first to point out the sequelae of the itch.:  * * *  I
must confess that, according to my own observations, and to those of
many other physicians who deserve the fullest confidence, I have no
doubt whatever aboui the existence of sequelhe of the itch."
And then he goes on to show reasons for his opinion, and
the grounds on which he presumes that the chronic disease
under consideration took its rise from   the itch, which had
existed nine years before.
If the errors of one set of reputable physicians can be
admitted as some extenuation of the errors of another, supposing them to be in error on this point-and they do so in
the way of dividing the unenviable distinction of being wrong
-we can adduce some nearly parallel examples of an unwarrantable pathology. Stahl, you know, restricted all chronic diseases to affections of the vena portme (porta malorum.)
* Versuche ffir die praktischc Heilkunde, p. 229.. Tiibingen, 1807,
t Lancet, 1844, p. 211, &amp;c.
t Hahnemann did not do so. He claims only the credit of having traced
almost all chronic diseases to the itch, which is more than others had done.
4


