
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.

31

you will acknowledge yourself either to be mistaken, or to
have no countenance whatever in the authority of those
who know most upon the subject.
Then, as to the power of bark to produce ague, meaning
by the term a fever, consisting of certain stages, completely
ceasing for a time, and recurring in paroxysms, I fully agree
with you, that we have no evidence that such a power exists.
But if you imply, in the passage I have quoted, that Hahnemann alleges that he experienced an ague, in this sense, from
the use of cinchona, you are very much mistaken. He. no
where says so. His words are:-" How is it possible, (if not
by Homceopathic action,) that the tertian and quotidian fevers
which I have radically cured, some weeks past, by a few
drops of the tincture of cinchona, should have presented
symptoms almost identical with those which yesterday and
to-day I have observed in myself, when, by way of experiment, I have taken a little at a time, though in perfect
health, four drachms of good cinchona?"-Lettre a un
Medecin.
Now, I confess, I never could see any reason for supposing that he meant any thing more than this,-that the bark,
(taken in doses, frequently repeated, observe,) produced
chilly feelings and shiverings, followed by heat of the surface, and perspiration. If he be also said to affirm, that the
proper periodicity of ague was produced also by the bark,
then he is made to say that he had a quotidian and a tertian
at the same time, which is ridiculous. And if you look at
his proving or the medicine,you will find that he says nothing
of a succession of such stages being followed by an interval
of cessation, and that again by a new paroxysm. Shiverings,
chilliness, flushing, and perspiration, compose the most characteristic symptoms of an ague when the fit is present, no
symptoms at all characterize it when it is not, that is, in the
intermission. And when cinchona cures ague, I suppose it
does quite enough when it cures the febrile symptoms; in the
same sense as other means cure spasmodic asthma, epilepsy,
and other paroxysmal diseases; that is, prevents their return.
That cinchona does produce the chilliness, shiverings, heat,
sweatings, and other febrile conditions that commonly characterize a fit of ague, is attested by twenty other authorities
besides Hahnemann. You will find their names appended
to the symptoms they had severally witnessed, in this Materia
Medica; and you will distinguish among the number sonme
that belonged to the same school as yourself.


