
THE PRACTICAL ADVANTAGES OF HOMcEOPATHY, illustrated by numerous cases.
Dedicated by permission to Her Majesty Queen Adelaide. By H. DUNSFORD, M. D. $1.
THE BRITISH JOURNAL OF HOM(COPAK'HY. Edited by J. J. DRYSDALE, M. D.; J. R
RUSSELL, M. D.; and FArNCIs BLACK, M. D. London, 1843-1845. Nos. 1-15.
JAHR'S MANUAL OF HOM(EOPATHIC ýMEDICINE. Translated from the German. With
S.- an introduction and some additions by C. HErtINc, M. D. 1838. Bound, $2 50.
F. VANDERBURGI, M. D. AN APPEAL,.OR HOMCEOPATHY; or Remarks on the Deci.
sion of the late Judge Cowen, relativo.eto.thelgal rights of I-Homceopashic Physicians. 1844. 12h
cents.
M. CROSERIO, M. D., ON HOM(EOPATHIC MEDICINE. Illustrating its superiority over
the other medical doctrines, with an account of the regimen to be followed during the treatment o
Homnceopathy. Translated from the French. 25 cents.
HYDRIATICS, OR MANUAL OF THE WATER CURE,-Especially as practised by Vincent
Priessnitz, in Graffenberg; compiled and translated from the writings of Charles Munrde, Dr. Oertel,
Dr. B. Hirschel, and other eye-witnesses and practitioners.-4th edition, by Fascis GRAETER, price
50 cents, with one plate or six engravings. 1844.
ROKYTANSKY'S PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY, translated from the German, with additions on Diagnosis, from Schbnlein, Skoda, and others, by Dr. Jons C. PETERS. 1844. 75 cents.
Opinions of the Press.-" Dr. Rokytansky's book is no more than it professes to be: it is morbid
Anatomy in its densest and most compact form, scarcely ever alleviated by histories, cases, or hy.
potheses. It is just such a work as might be expected from its author, who is said to have written
in it thie result of his experience gained in the careful examination of over 12,000 bodies, and who
is pogsessed of a truly marvellous power of observing and amassing facts. In the course of our analy- aw  rwe have said comparatively little of its merits, the best evidence of which is found in the length
to which our abstracts have been carried without passing beyond the bounds of what is novel or ima.
portant. Nor would this fault have been committed though much more had been borrowed, for no
modern volume on morbid Anatomy contains half so many genuine facts as this; it is alon, suffi,
cient to place its author in the highest rank of European medical observers."-British and Foreigs.,.ledical Review, January, 1843.
ENCHIRIDION MEDICUM, or the Practice of Medicine; the result of fifty years' experience,
by C. W. lIUFELAND, counsellor of state, physician in ordinary of the late King of Prussia, professor
in the University of Berlin. From the sixth German edition: translated by C. Bruchhausen, M. D.
Revised by R. Nelson, MA. D. Second American Edition. 1844. Bound, $2 50.
Opinions:-The following lines from Dr. Manley, formerly President ofthe Medical Society of the
State of New York, contains his opinion in few words of the merits of the book:I am happy to have the opportunity of recommending to the Medical profession the lManual of the
Practice ofaledicine, by Huleland. It is not often that books of this character, on perusal, make good
the claims which their titles assume, but this is a well marked exception: its descriptions of diseases,
though concise, are comprehensive; its reasonings just and philosophical, and its practice, as a consequence, intelligible and rational. The character of the author, and his experience of more than
halfa century, together with the unexampled popularity of the work in its original language, render
in my opinion all individual recommendation superfluous. I hope that it may soon be found Lin the
hands of every medical man, whether pupil or practitioner.      JAME R. MANLEY, M.D.
New-York, September 7, 1842.
Certificate of JOHN F. GRAY, AM. D., formerly resident physician to the New-York Hospital, Lee.
turer on the Theory and Practice of Physic, Censor of the State and New-York Medical Societies,
etc., etc.
I am very glad to find the press engaged in diffusing a knowledge of the German medical literature
in this country. At the ihead of the German books of practice stands this book of the good Hufeland.
Mr. Bruchhausen and Dr. Nelson have labored iA ith diligence and good faith in rendering the En.
chiridion; and so fsir as I have had leisure to compare their work with the original, I find no error
of magnitude. Another edition will, no doubt, be called for soon, and t,1en thie worthy American cura.
tores can dispense with the somewhat meagre characteristic given to it by their too close adherence
to the letter of the author. I iheartily wish success to the good enterprise.
Jore F. GRAY: Mi. D.
New-York, September 8, 1842.
The reputation of the venerable eclectic of Germany scarcely requires endorsement even on this
side of the Atlantic. An independent and original thinker, Bufeland labored for the cause of
medical science, and has acqLired a universal renown, omply attested to by his ' Journal of Practical Medicine," "Art of prolongig Life," " System of Practical Medicine," and numerous Essays,
besides personal contributions of humane and necessary innovations in the treatment of " Inocula.
tion," '"Small Pox," and "Signs of Death."  His last work, Enrchiridion Jnledicum, concentrates the
experience of his entire medical life, and fully maintains in its careful and concise description and
diagnosis of diseases all the evidence of the discriminating intellect of the Patriarch of German
medical literature.                                             A. GERALD HULL; M. D.
New-York, September 12, 1842.
)


