
50

PROFESSOR HENDERSON'S

Portal ascribed all hereditary diseases (and they include a
pretty long catalogue of chronic ailments of all kinds) to
scrofula; which, again, in all its multitudinous forms, Astruc,
Lalouette, and others, (Portal himself among them,) conceived
to be degenerated syphilis.
Once more, and 1 have done with my apology for the
psoric hypothesis. Psora is the most common of diseases, in
all parts of the habitable globe. No age, sex, or condition
can resist its pestilent infection; and back to a remote
antiquity its attachment to the family of man is recorded with
humiliating certainty. The poor it attends everywhere with
the fidelity of a shadow, intrudes wherever men gather in
numbers, from the workshop of the tailor to the tent of the
soldier. Wherever a chronic disease can creep in, psora can
lead or follow. And if it be argued that chronic diseases often
afflict persons who never had the eruption of psora, it may
be replied that no one can tell with certainty how long the
infection, which is commonly betrayed by the eruption, may
remain latent in the system. Biett admits that it may for
months; Hahnemann thought that it might much longer,
and even never cause an eruption at all.
But all this is no proof of Hahnemann's hypothesis. It is
not intended to be so;--if it be received as some extenuation
of his error, my object is gained. He, in'common with
Autenrieth and Sch6nlein, has failed to prove it, or even to
make it very probable;--yet it is not utterly and absolutely
absurd, whatever " the half-educated multitude" might think
of it.
The really important inquiry ihi reference to this hypothesis is, whether it affects the practice of Homceopathy, so as
to involve in its overthrow the pretensions of the latter to
success in the permanent cure of chronic diseases. That it
does, is the drift of your jocose observations on the subject,--
that it does not, is the unquestionable inference, from a candid
consideration of the "anti-psoric" treatment.  All that is
really of consequence in Hahnemann's instructions respecting
that treatment is, that chronic diseases in general can be radically cured with certainty only when the remedies which are
used for tlhe purpose are selected from among those which
cure psora. I have no doubt that he regarded this circumstance as an additional proof of the accuracy of his psoric
hypothesis, and if the circumstance be as he says it is, I
should consider his inference from it by no means contemptible. That it is true, I do not believe, any further than this,
that Hahnemann had some reason to conclude, from experi

