
58

PROFESSOR HENDERSON'S

tending claims,-which shuts the door against no evidence,
but impartially weighs and listens to the arguments on both
sides. With this spirit they strangely confound the one-sided
scepticism which locks the door against all new comers, or
says, with the man in the play, " I'm fixed, determined; so
now produce your reasons. When I'm determined, I always
listen to reason, because it can then do no harm."  And this
scepticism, too, which was once held to be a very fine thing,
the property of these quite superior minds, which ought not
to believe with the vulgar, appears to have overflowed its
receptacles among the lustrous population of the higher regions of mind, and to have gravitated to those low-lying valleys of intellect, where there can be but.little reflection, because there is little light, and where scepticism is easily accommodated, because there is little to dispute with it the virgin soil. In reference to Homoeopathy, at least, it can be
said truly, that scepticism is no indication of superior wisdom,
for if there be men of talent and learning (on other subjects)
opposed to it, it is undeniable that; among the bitterest unbelievers are to be found, both in and out of the profession, a
host of persons distinguished alike by their ignorance and
their incapacity.
In the course of your strictures on my work, you extract
three cases apparently as samples of the whole. If this was
the intention with which they are given, I can only say, and
say with justice, that-you could hardly have acted more unfairly. Even on the supposition that all the recoveries were
due to your power of nature,.the proceeding is unfair. There
are cases, and not a few among those I have published, the
recovery of which, within the period specified of each, and
more especially considering the time during which the diseases had lasted, and the nature of the sufferings, was sufficiently remarkable to have entitled them to notice, were it
only to show how much better no treatment at all was than
the ordinary treatment. There are cases, also, which had
been under no treatment for a long time before the Hommopathic was employed-and some of these might have been
noticed as striking examples of what your power of imagination can do, or of the remarkable coincidences that sometimes happen between the commencement of a particular
treatment, and the spontaneous termination of a disease.
Your readers might then have formed some conception of
the reasonableness of the shifts by which you endeavour to
explain away the apparent efficacy of the practice. They


