
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.

25

that I may be spared the tedious task of correcting so many
errors of detail.
It is barely possible that you may consider every disease
that is treated by a surgeon as a surgical disease. If that be
your definition of the term, although it is somewhat of the
oddest, we shall, no doubt, agree that many surgical diseases
are mentioned among the provings. Surgeons treat erysipelas--belladonna produces it; surgeons treat boils-pulsatilla produces them; surgeons treat ophthalmia-aconite,
belladonna, &amp;c., produce it; surgeons treat cystitis-cantharides produce it; surgeons treat caries-mercury produces
it; surgeons treat psoriasis-arsenic produces it; and so on
with twenty other disorders common-to surgeons and the
provings. You deny all this, but Hahnemann, and his company of provers, aver it, and (you will pardon, in so important a discussion, my plain speaking) they were far better
entitled to know.
But you deny this also: Not a shadow of, proof exists
that the symptoms were the consequence or direct effect of
the medicine; while a thousand reasons can be adduced for
supposing the contrary."--P. 234. What sort of proof would
satisfy "philosophers, and hard-headed sceptics like ourselves," it is not for me to say. Philosophers are not always
the wisest men in the world. One endeavoured to prove
that there was no such thing as motion; another, that there
was no difference between right and wrong; a third, the
father of a philosophy that finds its disciples in modern times,
that we should give no credit to our senses, and so sincerely
did he act upon his principles, that "if a cart run against him,
or a dog attacked him, or if he came upon a precipice, he
Would not stir a foot to avoid the danger. He had friends,
however, who, happily for him, were not such great sceptics,
and took care to keep him out of harm's way; so that he
lived till he was ninety years old."  Again: " hard-headed,"
or " unlimited scepticism," as Dugald Stewart has it, " is as
great a proof of imbecility as implicit credulity is."  Philosophers and sceptics may carry their principles too far, it would
seem; and if they wanted more proof of the source of their
sufferings (in case they should take to the proving of medicines on their own bodies) than what I am about to specify, would stand very much in need of the "care of their
friends."
Suppose some half- dozen men, who had a certain confidence in the evidence of their senses, to set about proving the
effects of a particular medicine, on their own persons, they


