
LETTER E  TO DR. fo0SEP.

61

their entirse was mild enough certainly, and their recovery
Was for the most part very speedy. Does it, therefore, follow
that the cases were slight? Would any man be entitled to
say from the first report of them, before the treatment, that
they were slight of their kind? I say no. And it is rather
too much to urge the very success of the practice, as lessening
the evidence in its favour I If the cases had continued as
at first, or had increased in intensity, for a number of days,
you would call them severe, no doubt; and you would at
the same time have evidence, which no Homceopath could
gainsay, that the practice was useless. We are entitled to
the converse of this, however,-the cases decreased rapidly
in severity after the treatment was begun; affording some
evidence that the practice was not useless.
Of three cases you quote, there are two concerning which
a few remarks are called for. The one is that of a gentleman
who had become, from necessity, dependent on aperient
medicine for above two years. He took some Homoeopathic
medicine, and soon became restored to perfect health. The
result you consider to have been due to the pill system
having been discontinued. Possibly you may be right, and
possibly you may not. But you act unfairly in conveying
the impression to your readers that I adduced the case as a
proof of the marvellous effects produced by the millionth
part of a grain of nux vomica. You profess to have read
the introductory part of my work, and quote from it a passage to the effect that I published every case of which an
account had been taken down at the commencement of the
treatment. You seem also to have read the summary at the
end of the work, in which it is stated that I do not mean to
absert that all the recoveries were due to the Homoeopathic
remedies. These statements might have suggested to you
that, in publishing the cases, I committed myself to no
opinion of the cause of recovery in any individual case,
(one of the cases of pneumonia excepted,) but acted the
part merely of a faithful transcriber of the details of a series
of experiments-contenting myself with the remark, that I
could.not believe the very favourable course and issue of so
large a proportion of the cases to be due to accident, or
imagination.
You may say, indeed, that if a case were of such a nature
that its recovery could not help us to form an opinion of the
value to be attached to the treatment, it was useless to detail
it at all. But then you forget that, though the recovery of
a case may not prove any thing in favour of the treatment,


