
GENERA% AGENCY
OF THE
CENTRAL HOM(EOPATHIC PHARMACY,
AT, LEIPZIG,
FOR THE UNITED STATES,
' WM. RADDE, No. 322, BROADWAY, NEW-YORK.
WM. RADDE respectfully informs the Hommeopathic Physicians, and the friends of
the System, that he is the sole Agent for the Leipzig Central Homceopathic Pharmacy,
and that he has always on hand a good assortment of the best Homceopathic Medicines,
in complete sets or by single vials, in Tinctures, Dilutions and Triturations; also
Pocket Cases of Medicines; Physicians' and Family Mnedicine Chests to Laurie's Domestic (472 Remedies)-EPP'S (54 Remedies)--HERING'S (58 Remedies).--Small Pocket-cases at $3, with family guide and 27 Remedies.-Cases containing 415 Vialz with
Tinctures and Triturationsfor Physicians--Cases with 240 Vials of Tinctures and 4'4-7 "
turations to Jahr's Manual in 2 vols.-POCKET CASES with 6Q Vials of Tinctures
and Triturations.-Cases from 200 to 400 Vials with low and high dilutions of medicated pellets.-Cases from 50 to SO Vials of low and high dilutions, &amp;c., &amp;c. Refined
Sugar of Milk, pure Globules, &amp;c., as well as Books, Pamphlets, and Standard Works
on the System, in the English, French, and German languages.
I-IOM(EOPATHIC BOOKS.
JAHR G. H. G., M. D. Short Elementary Treatise upon Homonopathia and the Manner of its Practice; with some of the most important effects of ten of the principal Homieopathic remedies, for the use of all honest men who desire to convince themselves,
by experiment, of the truth of the doctrine. Second French edition, corrected and enlarged, translated by Edward Bayard, M. D. Bound,..                37 cts.
JAHR'S NEW MANUAL OF HOMiEOPATHIC PRACTICE. Edited, with Annotations, by A. GERALD HULL, M. D., from the third Paris edition.
This is the second American edition of a very celebrated work, written in French by
the eminent Homccopathic Professor Jahr, and it is considered the best practical compendium of this extraorianary science that has yet been composed. After a very judicious and instructive introduction, the work presents a table of the Homceop-t-hic
medicines, with their names in Latin, English, and German; the order in which they
are to be studied, with their most important distinctions, and clinical illustrations of
their symptoms and effects upon the various organs and functions of the human system.
-The second volume embraces an elaborate analysis of the indications in disease, of
the medicines adapted to cure, and a glossary of the technics used in the work, arranged so luminously as to form an admirable guide to every medical student. The
whole system is here displayed with a modesty of pretension, and a scrupulosity in
statement, well calculated to bespeak candid investigation. This laborious work is
indispensable to the students and practitioners of Homceopathy, and highly interesting
to medical and scientific men of all classes. 2 vols. bound. Price $6.
HAHNEMANN, Dr. S. The chronic diseases., their specific nature and homeopathic
treatment. Translated and edited by Charles J. Hempel, M. D., with a preface, by
Constantine Hering, M. D., Philadelphia. 8vo. 5 volumes. Bound. 1845. $7.
HEMPEL'S Homceopathic Domestic Physician, 1S46. Bound 50 cts
BCENNINGHAUSEN'S Essay on the Homceopathic Treatment of Intermittent Fevers. Translated and edited by Charles Julius Hempel, M. D. 1845. 38cts.
A treatise on the uese ofArnm in cases of Contusions, Wounds, Strains, Sprains, Lacerations of the Solids, Concusliohs, Paralysis, Rheumatism, Soreness of the 1Nipples,
etc., etc., with a number of cases-illustrative of the use of that drug, by Charles Julius
Hempel, M. D. 1845. 18I cts.
HAHNEMANN, Dr. S. Materia Medica Pura. Translated and edited by Charles
Julius Hempel, M. D. 2 vols. 184.- $3. The Third and Fourth vols. in press.
LEAVITT, TROW, &amp;          O.,   RINTERS, 33 AN-STREET.
A


