
LETTER TO DR. FORBES.

53

virtues which a medicine, tried on the healthy body, shall
exert on the diseased, beyond its probable evacuating and
nauseating, and narcotising, and one or two other energetic
influences long since abundantly supplied, I am at a loss to
conjecture. Will "Young Physic." then, allow all his pangs
to go for nothing? Was it only for this that he has panted,
and groaned, and writhed, and coughed, and spit, and sneezed, and bled? That he has endured headaches and colics,
stitches and twitches in every section of his frame, and so
many a fac-simile more of the ills C that flesh is heir to?"
Can he make no use of them Allopathically, or Antipathically; or must he be contented to let them stand' as penances?
Supposing he should try to turn them to some remedial
account, what can he make, Antipathically* or Allopathically,t of such an effect of a medicine as a racking pain in his
stomach, for example, or a fiery redness of his nose? Why,
Allopathically, he can get up an artificial pain in his stomach,
to remove a natural pain from his head, or his feet; or he
cafl'set his nose in a blaze, to cure an erysipelas of his legs,
oh the principle that one fire puts out another. But will the
cure not be as bad as the disease? Then, Antipathically,
how will he manage to make a practical use of his voluntary
afflictions? I can understand how he may succeed, when
his nose is disagreeably white, to strike the more becoming
hue by a skilful administration of the reddening remedy,but I am at a loss for the useful employment of the pain in
his stomach. The opposite of a painful is an- agreeable sensation, and I know not an instance of a pleasurable feeling in
the stomach playing an important part in pathology. Yes,
there is one such. You will find it in the treatise of worthy
Dr. Underwood, on the diseases of children. The " inward
fits," quoth he, are betrayed by a frequent and sweet
smiling during sleep; the which is provoked by wind
pleasantly tickling the stomach.  Now, for just such a
dose of the ache-causing remedy as shall nicely strike the
balance between a pleasure and a pain.   What an opportunity for our infant Hercules, our young Antipath! to
still the apprehensions of a fond mother, and disappoint
the forebodings of the lugubrious nurse.
Seriously, what can be made of nine-tenths of the know* Antipathy, I may temind the reader, means the treatment which aims at
producing a state opposite to the disease.
t Allopathy,-the treatment which aims at prodhicing a state merely different
from the disease, or in a different part of the body.


