
10

PROFESSOR HENDERSON'S

of drawing an erroneous inference as to the general fact of
which group has been the most successfully treated-which
treatment has been, on the whole, the best, and the most
worthy of future confidence.
I conceive that no one will be inclined to dispute that
three or four hundred cases of a particular disease, on each
side, taken indiscriminately from both sexes, at all ages
above infancy, at all periods of the disease according as the
persons affected happened to present themselves for treatment, at all seasons, and during a series of years, present
very fair grounds for ascertaining the comparative value of
two kinds of practice. It is in the very nature of statistics,
collected in such circumstances, and embracing so large a
number of cases, to do away with accidental sources of
error, and to bring out a general fact that might be misref    presented by more limited data. The comparisons I am
about to give possess all these safeguards against mistake,
and the proofs which they afford are as completely decisive
in respect to the general fact of the superiority of the Homaeopathic practice as any proofs we have in medicine on
any point whatever.
Dr. Fleischmann treated in the Homceopathic Hospital
of Vienna during the nine years beginning in 1834, and
ending in 1843, two hundred and ninety-nine cases of inflammation of the lungs. Of these, nineteen died, or about
one in sixteen.
With these cases I contrast, first, the experience of
Chomel in the Hotel Dieu of Paris. He does not, in the
account from which my information is drawn, specify the
number of cases that had fallen under his care; but when
we consider the frequency of pneumonia in Paris, the size
of the hospital in which he practised, and the length of time
to which the account refers, we must admit that the number
cannot have been less than that treated by Fleischmann.
The period of ten years, from 1832 to 1842, during which
Chomel's cases occurred, will be allowed to have been sufficiently extensive to have prevented any possibility of error
from the variable genius of the disease, coinciding so nearly
as it does, too, with the period of Fleischmann's practice.
And in order to do away with the possibility of any prejudice to the comparison, in favour of Homceopathy, that
might be conjectured to arise from the cases of Fleischmann
having been accidentally of an age more favourable to recovery, than those of Chomel, I select from the statements
of the latter, what he says of the mortality during that


